Paying Examinations fees Online Through Eazypay (ICICI Bank) 
 
STEP – 1 :  
 
Enter “Eazypay ICICI bank “ on google or enter  www.eazypay.icicibank.com 
on your browser and a page will be displayed below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP – 2:  
 
Click On “ View By Category “ as displayed and a page appears below.  
STEP – 3:  
 
Once you click on college , a page appears below and click on 
location as Tamilnadu  and city as Madurai  and click on submit.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP – 4 :  
 
Click on Select Biller ,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A dropdown list appears, click on T C E Autonomous account  and click on  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
search button.  
STEP – 5 :  
 
Enter Your mobile  number and Roll No  and click on show details.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP – 6 :  
 
Enter the One time password received on your mobile and click on submit.  
STEP – 7 :  
 
Once submitted , the bill appears. Tick on I agree and accept 
and click on pay now  button.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP – 8 :  
Select any payment mode and pay the fees.  
 
Note :  
 
1. For Cash / Cheque / DD, challan  has to be generated and 
print out should be taken and can be paid at ICICI Bank branch.  
 
2. Netbanking , Debit card and credit card – E-rece ipt will be 
generated once the fees paid and can be sent to your email ID for 
your future reference or can be downloaded by clicking on home 
page of website in the transaction history option.  
 
3. For cheque and DD , Please check the charges and  the 
amount should be same as per challan.  
 
4. Cheque and DD should be drawn in favour of “ TCE  
AUTONOMOUS ACCOUNT “  
 
5. Once any mode of payment is selected , all the o ther 
modes will be blocked.  
Eg: if you have selected neft mode and decided to pay through 
cash then you have to cancel the challan in the transaction 
history option first and then again regenerate the cash challan.  
 
6. For any other queries , feel free to contact :  
 
 
