Institution's Innovation Council | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC Institution's Innovation Council Breadcrumb Home > Industry > Institution's Innovation Council Institution's Innovation Council INSTITUTION’S INNOVATION COUNCIL Ministry of Education, Govt. of India has established its Innovation Cell at AICTE with a purpose of systematically fostering the culture of Innovation amongst all Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) across the country. MoE’s Innovation Cell (MIC) is focusing to create and strengthen the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem across all HEIs to enable them in promoting and supporting student innovations and sustainable start-ups from academic institutions. TCE - IIC The Major focus of IIC of Thiagarajar College of Engineering is on: Cultivating innovation, and entrepreneurial skills among interested and mindful students by organizing a variety of Innovation and Entrepreneurship activities throughout the year in a systematic manner thereby creating a vibrant innovation ecosystem in our TCE campus. Providing training and workshops to the students and faculty to enhance their skills in innovation and entrepreneurship, including design thinking, intellectual property rights (IPR), and start-up management. Fostering innovation, promoting and facilitating the systematic submission of the document of the student’s Idea/PoC/Innovation/Prototype/ Business Model/Startup by an individual or team of students in Yukti YUKTI–National Innovation Repository (NIR). Assessing the readiness of the innovations in the YUKTI-NIR by the faculty innovation ambassadors and recommending for leveraging the student’s innovation including Innovation challenges, Technology readiness Levels (TRLs), Patenting, startup, and incubation. Connecting innovators with mentors, industry experts, and funding agencies, providing the necessary support for translating ideas into viable start-ups. Recognizing and rewarding innovative ideas and projects through various competitions and challenges, motivating students and faculty to pursue innovations toward startups Facilitating the creation of startups by providing incubation support, including access to infrastructure, seed funding, and networking opportunities. Institute Innovation Council Members Faculty Representation in IIC Name of the Member Member Type Dept IIC President Dr.L.Ashok Kumar (Principal) Professor Dept of EEE IIC Vice – President, Convener and ARIIA Dr.K.Hariharan Professor Dept of ECE IIC Coordinator Dr.D.Kavitha Associate Professor Dept of EEE Entrepreneur Development Cell Dr.S.Karthiga Associate Professor Dept of IT Innovation Activity Coordinator Dr.B.Ashokkumar Associate Professor Dept of EEE IPR activity Coordinator Dr.B.Sathyabama Professor Dept of ECE Internship activity Coordinator Dr.G.Ananthi Associate Professor Dept of ECE Startup activity Coordinator Mr. Vinoth Rajendran TCE-TBI CEO TCE - TBI NIRF coordinator Dr.A.M.Abirami Associate Professor Dept of IT Social media Mr.R.Vinoth Kumar Assistant Professor Dept of Architecture Member Dr.M.Senthilarasi Assistant Professor Dept of ECE Member Mr. S. Parthasarathi Assistant Professor Dept of Mechatronics Member Dr. M. Sermaraj Assistant Professor Dept of Mechanical Member Ms.R.Subhashini Assistant Professor Dept of CSBS Member Ms. S. Saradha Assistant Professor Dept of CSE Member Dr. C.Santhiya Assistant Professor Dept of CSE Member Ms.J.Eunice Assistant Professor Dept of CIVIL Member Dr. S. Ilankumaran Assistant Professor Dept of IT Member Dr. V. Aravindan Assistant Professor Dept of Physics Member Dr. B. Sundarakannan Assistant Professor Dept of Chemistry Member Dr. P.Victor Assistant Professor Dept of Maths Member Ar. S.Karthikeya Raja Assistant Professor Dept of Architecture Member Mr.B.Johnson Assistant Professor Dept of AMCS And Student council members Institution's Innovation Council – IIC Activities list Event Themes: IPR, R&D and Innovation, Entrepreneurship, Startup, Design Thinking & Critical Thinking, Incubation and Pre Incubation Activities: Expert Talks/ Mentoring Sessions/Exposure Visits/ Workshop/ Seminar/ Conference/ Boot camps/Exhibitions/Demo Day / Competitions / Hackathons/ Tech-Fest/Challenges / Panel discussion with innovation and Start-up enablers. Innovation Ambassador Innovation Ambassador (IA) program is a training program for the faculty members in our IIC council to perform the role of mentor in our IICs and provide support to other IICs as resource person. IA will spread the message of innovation & start-up among the students and faculties. YUKTI – Innovation Repository YUKTI – National Innovation Repository (NIR) is an initiative of the Ministry of Education (MoE) Government of India and it is implemented by MoE’s Innovation Cell and AICTE to build a system of repository of ideas, innovations and startups developed in academic institutions and enabling institutions to systematically foster the I&E culture by managing and nurturing these innovations by offering continuous support in terms of one-to-one mentorship, grant assistance, referral and linkage with incubation units, connecting with Angel/Venture Capital (VC) investors network, knowledge agencies, etc. TCE - IIC is Creating and Maintaining a Repository of Innovations by Identifying, Scouting and Evaluating Innovations and Start-ups Developed by Faculty Members, Students, Alumni and Incubated Start-ups on Regular Basis. The information is used for Indexing of Innovations on Themes & Stages Technology Readiness Level (TRL) Manufacturing Readiness Level (MRL) Investment readiness Level (IRL) ATL (Atal Tinkering Lab) mentoring Schools Adopted: Thiagarajar Mills Higher Secondary School Madurai Corporation Higher Secondary School Madurai St.Michael Matriculation Higher Secondary School Proposed Activities: Orientation session Trainings and Boot-camps Mentor-Mentee Meets Exposure Visits The team work of TCE-IIC members along with the HoDs of the department Promote Innovation: Encourage and organize activities that foster innovation among students and faculty. Collaborate with Industry: Build partnerships with industries for internships, projects, and innovations. Increase Participation: Motivate students and staff to actively participate in IIC initiatives and competitions. Organize Events: Plan and execute workshops, seminars, and competitions focused on entrepreneurship and innovation. Submit Reports: Ensure timely reporting of activities and achievements to IIC to promote the ranking and perception of our College. Links to our E-Cell , TEN and TBI page. Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact