Library | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC Library Breadcrumb Home > Library Library KALAITHANTHAI CENTENARY MEMORIAL LIBRARY About the Library TCE library supports the institute's program of study and research. And it offers Institution repositories and provides access to a wide range of materials, both printed and electronics. The collection includes Books, E-Books, Magazines, Journals, CD/DVD, E-Journals, Video lectures etc…. Books 90696 Book bank Books 14126 Subscribed E-Books 1204 Journals 114 E-Journals 500+ E-Conference proceedings 1800+ E - Journals 39018 Facilities and Services TCE library is fully automated Autolib library management software with RFID Technology. TCE digital library resources can be access from anywhere at any time through remote access platform. Our library building is under CCTV surveillance. Text book section Book bank section Reference section Periodicals section Back Volume section Browsing section Lending service Document Delivery service Referral service Self-online renewal 24*7 remote access to Digital resources Orientation to the new users Staff Grant - in - Aid Dr. L. Radha Librarian (Senior Scale),(Grant - in - Aid) Mr. M. Murugan Office Asst. (Spl. Gr) Ms. P. Sahayamary Attender (RC) Self-Supporting Mr. P. Sathishkumar Assistant Librarian Ms. S. Deepa Library Assistant Mrs. K. Chithambaravalli Library Assistant Mrs. P. Kavitha Library Assistant Rules and Regulations Rules and Regulations Entry is permitted with ID card only. Leave your bags in the property counter. Use of edibles items are strictly prohibited inside the library Reference materials should not be taken outside from the library. On leaving the library, all users are requested to extend their cooperation for the inspection of all books and items taken out of the library. Overdue charges will be applicable for books returned after the due date. If an issued book is lost / damaged it has to replace as per the TCE norms. Members are requested to make use of digital library only for online educational resources. Do not install or uninstall any program or service in library computer. Violation of these rules will call for punitive action against the erring student. Working Hours Monday to Friday: 8.00 AM. TO 6.30 PM. Saturday:  9.00 AM. TO 5.00 PM. Library Vacation Timings Notice During the vacation period, the library will operate only on weekdays (Monday to Friday) and will follow the college's official working hours 9.00 AM to 5.00 PM. Privileges of members Designation No. of Books Retention period Renewal period (one time) Fine for the books returned / renewed after the due date Replacement policy for loss of books For first 20 days After first 20 days Research scholars 5 15 days 15 days 50 paisa  Per day Minimum of 1. [Rs.10+ 3*(date of return - due date- 20 days) ] Replace the book by new book of the latest edition. If not able to make the replacement, then double the cost of the book (if book purchased within 8 years) or thrice the cost of the book (if book purchased earlier) will be collected for cost recovery of loss with the fine till the date of replacement. UG - Students (Applicable to Part time Students also) 5 PG - Students 7 Faculty 10 One month - lending period And 2 times renewal  allowed -    total 3 months (lending + renewals) Fine:   Nil But books should be returned at the end of each semester LOSS  OF BOOKS: Replace the book by new book of the latest edition. If not able to make the replacement, then double the cost of the book (if book purchased within 8 years) or thrice the cost of the book (if book purchased earlier) will be collected for cost recovery of loss. Non teaching & staff members 3 Book Bank Designation No. of books Retention period Overdue charges Only for SC/ST students (UG/PG regular) 10 3 months Nil Contact Details : Dr. L. Radha Librarian Mail: library [at] tce [dot] edu Phone: (0452) 2482240 Ext: 816 Collections The TCE Library is equipped with an advanced automated library management system powered by RFID technology. This system streamlines book lending, returns, and inventory management, ensuring efficient and accurate operations. In addition to its physical resources, the library offers remote access to a wide range of digital materials, enabling users to explore and utilize resources anytime and from anywhere. To ensure a safe and secure environment, the entire library premises are monitored through CCTV surveillance. Library Timings Monday-Friday 8.00 AM. To 6.30 PM. Saturday 9.00 AM. To 5.00 PM The TCE Library consists of several sections: Textbook Section Book Bank Section Reference Section Periodicals Section Back Volume Section Browsing Section It also offers a variety of services, including: Lending Service Document Delivery Service Referral Service Self-Online Renewal 24/7 Remote Access to Digital Resources Orientation for New Users CAT and Semester Question papers Library Memberships DELNET NDL (National Digital Library) SALIS (Society of Advancement of Library and Information Science) ESS- INFLIBNET Access E-resources like NPTEL, Swayam, Shodh Ganga (E-Thesis repository) through TCE Digital library https://tce.knimbus.com/portal/v2/default/home Collection Details as on 20 th July 2026 TOTAL NUMBER OF BOOKS Resources Number of Volumes Number of Titles Books 90696 58833 Book bank Books 14126 4182 Total 104822 63015 TOTAL NUMBER OF HARDCOPY OF JOURNALS Hard copy of Journals / Magazines  (2022) No. of Journals / Magazines International Journals 29 National Journals 85 Total 114 Total Number of E-Books Publishers Number of E-Books Pearson 226 TLC Books (ProQuest) 40 IEEE – Wiley books 938 Knimbus open access E-Books 78617 Total Number of  E- Journals Packages No. of Journals IEEE Journals 230 Science Direct Journals (Elsevier) 464 Springer Journals 113 Knimbus open access E-Journals 25000 For more visit TCE Digital library https://tce.new.knimbus.com/ Log in with your individual credentials. For any queries contact library [at] tce [dot] edu Contact us Dr. L. Radha Librarian Mail: library [at] tce [dot] edu Phone: (0452) 2482240 Ext: 816 Working Hours Monday to Friday: 8.00 AM. to 6.30 PM. Saturday: 9.00 AM. to 5.00 PM. Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact