 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI - 625 015 
(An Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University) 
 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 
B.ARCH. DEGREE PROGRAMME 
 
CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM 
(For candidates admitted from the Academic year 2015 – 16 onwards) 
 
1.0   PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE 
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
i. “Programme” means B. Arch Degree Programme         
ii. “Degree” means Under Graduate (UG) Degree that is B.Arch degree. 
iii. “Course” means a theory, theory cum studio or studio subject that is normally studied in 
a semester, like Fundamentals of Architecture, Building Materials and Construction I, 
Architectural Design I, etc. 
iv. “University” means Anna University. 
2.0 QUALIFICATION FOR ADMISSION  
2.1 Students for admission to the first semester of the ten semester B.Arch. Degree 
Programme shall be required to have passed the Higher Secondary Examination of 
(Academic 10+2) cur riculum with Mathematics as subject of study or 3 year Diploma                   
(10 +3) recognized by the Central / State Government with mathematics as subject of 
study or any other examination of any University or Authority accepted by the Syndicate 
of this University as equivalent thereto. 
2.2    Notwithstanding the qualifying examinations, the student shall have passed an aptitude 
test as specified by the Council of Architecture in the minimum standards of Architectural 
Education and Regulations or any  other statutory authorities dealing with Architectural 
Education. 
2.3 The eligibility criteria such as marks, number of attempts and physical fitness shall be as 
prescribed   by the Syndicate of the University from time to time. 
 
 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
3.0 STRUCTURE OF THE PROGRAMME 
3.1  Categorization of Courses 
B.Arch. Programme will have a curriculum with syllabi consisting of theory, theory 
cum studio and studio courses that shall be categorized as follows: 
i. Programme Core Courses (PC)  courses include the core courses relevant to the 
chosen specialization/branch like Fundamentals of Design, Architectural Design etc. 
ii. Compulsory Foundation Courses  (CFC) courses provide basic foundation to the 
core courses or supplement the core courses li ke Fundamentals of Architecture, 
Theory of Design etc. 
iii. Elective Foundation Courses (EFC)  are foundation courses which lead to 
knowledge enhancement selected from a pool of courses under specific streams like 
Architecture, Design, Technology, Planning, Energy and Environment.  
iv. Programme Elective Courses (PEC) are supportive (specific or specialized) to the 
discipline of study like Art Appreciation, Construction Technology etc. These are 
pooled under the following categories. 
a. Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope: Courses which are 
advanced/ courses with latest technologies or courses which are supportive to 
the discipline like Appropriate Construction Technology, Advanced Structures, 
Disaster Mitigation and Management etc. 
b. Interdisciplinary Elective:  Courses which are chosen from B.E./B.Tech. 
Degree programmes in the college.  
c. Skill/ Proficiency based Elective: Courses which nurture skills and proficiency 
of the candidate like Representation I, Representation II, Architectural 
Workshop etc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
 
 The distribution of credits for each category is given Table 1. 
Table1: Credit Distribution 
S.No Category  Credit 
Distribution 
1. Programme Core Courses 74 
2 Compulsory Foundation Courses 67 
3. Elective Foundation Courses  27-36 
4. Programme Elective Courses 12-21 
 Minimum Number of Credits to be earned for the award of the degree 180 
 
3.2  Personality and Character Development  
 All students shall register, on admission, in any one of the personality and character 
development programmes (NCC/NSS/NSO) and undergo training and attend camps as 
prescribed by the respective officers / coordinators. The training shall include classes on  
hygiene and health awareness and also training in first aid. 
• National Cadet Corps (NCC) will have a number of parades/camps specified by the 
NCC officer. 
• National Service Scheme (NSS) will have social service activities in and around the 
college specified by the NSS coordinator 
• Sports, games, drills and physical exercises specified by the Physical Director 
 While the training activities will normally be during weekends, the camp will n ormally be 
during vacation period. Every student shall put in a minimum attendance in the training 
and attend the camp. The training and camps shall be completed during the first year of 
the programme. However, for valid reasons, the Principal may permit a  student to 
complete this requirement in the second year. 
3.3 Credit Assignment 
 Each course is assigned certain number of credits based on the following: 
Table 2: Credit Assignment 
Contact period per week Credit 
1 hour Lecture Period 1 
2 hours Tutorial Periods 1 
2 hours Studio/ Practical Periods 1 
 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
3.4       Number of Courses/ Credits per semester 
Curriculum of a semester shall normally have a blend of theory courses, theory cum 
studio courses and studio courses. Each course may have credits assigned as per 
clause 3.3. However, the total number of courses per semester shall not exceed 7 of 
which the studio courses shall not exceed 1.  The maximum number of credits the 
student can register in a particular semester cannot exceed 30 Credit s (including 
courses for which the student has done reappearance registration (vide clause 5.8). 
3.5      Educational Tour  
Every student shall undergo one educational tour (apart from case study trips) 
compulsorily as arranged during the course of the B. Arch degree programme. 
3.6 Online Courses / Guided Study Courses/ Onsite study courses  / Industry 
Supported Courses  
3.6.1   Students may b e permitted to register one course per semester from o nline courses or 
Guided Study course s or o nsite study course  or i ndustry supported course with the 
approval of the Department Committee constituted by the Head of the Department and 
approved by the Academic Council after IV semester of the programme. 
3.6.2 Students may be permitted to credit online courses subject to a maximum of three 
credits. The student needs to obtain certification or credit to become eligible for the End 
Semester Examination conducted by the Controller of Examinations.  
3.6.3 The student can opt for Guided Study course subject to a maximum of three credits and 
provided the student does not have current arrears and CGPA of 8.0 and above. 
Guided study courses may be offered by any d epartment within the Institute. The 
purpose of the course is to permit the student to study a course / a topic of the student’s 
choice. The studen ts shall study on their own under the guidance of a faculty member. 
No formal lectures need to be delivered. The syllabus of the course and mode of 
assessments shall be approved by the Department Committee constituted by the Head 
of the Department and Acad emic Council. Preferably One Faculty member approved by 
the Head of the Department shall be responsible for the periodic monitoring and 
evaluation of the course.  
3.6.4 The student may be permitted to credit onsite study courses (which are provided with 
certificate) subject to a maximum of three credits offered by any Industry/Research 
Organization/NGO/National Labs, Teaching Faculty/Independent expert in the field 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
related to Architecture. The course shall be offered with the prior approval of the syllabus 
from the Department Committee constituted by the Head of the Department and 
Academic Council for final approval. 
  
3.6.5 Industry supported Courses:  Students can opt for one -credit courses and two credit 
courses subject to the maximum of three credits , off ered by experts from industry/ 
research organizations and approved by academic council. A student is also permitted to 
register for these courses of other departments, provided the student has fulfilled the 
necessary pre-requisites of the course being offe red and subject to the approval of both 
the heads of departments.  
3.6.6  The c redits earned through online course/Guided study course / onsite study 
course/Industry Supported Courses can be considered for exemption from Programme 
Elective or Elective Foundation course based on the request from the students to the 
Head of the Department.  
   
3.7      Medium of Instruction 
 The medium of instruction is English for all courses, design st udios, seminar 
presentations and project/thesis reports. 
 
4.0     DURATION OF THE PROGRAMME AND SEMESTERS 
4.1 A student is ordinarily expected to complete the B.Arch. Programme  in 10 semesters                       
(5 years) but in any case not more than 10 years (20 Semesters).   
 
4.2 Each semester normally consists of 90 working days (including examination days). In 
any contingent situation, the number of working days per semester shall not be less than 
65 days. The Principal is given the discretionary powers to decide the number of working 
days in such contingencies. The Principal shall ensure that every teacher imparts 
instruction as per the number of periods specified in the  syllabus and that the teacher 
teaches the full content of the specified syllabus for the course being taught. 
 
4.3 For the purpose of regulations, the academic year will be divided into two semesters, the 
odd semester normally spanning from June to Novemb er and the even semester from 
December to May. 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
4.4 The total duration for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement of 
the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not  exceed the  maximum 
duration specified in  clause 4.1 irrespective of the period of break of study (vide clause 
16) or prevention in order that the student may be eligible for the award of the degree 
(vide clause 14). 
 
4.5 The student shall complete and pass the first three academic years or six semesters 
(First Stage) within 7 years of admission to the B.Arch. course as stipulated in the Council 
of Architecture Minimum Standards of Architectural Education 2015. 
 
5.0  COURSE  REGISTRATION 
5.1 Each student on regular admission shall register for all the courses prescribed in the 
curriculum in the student’s first semester of study. 
 
5.2      A student has to earn the minimum number of total credits (180 Credits) specified in the 
curriculum of the chosen programme of study in order to be eligible to obtain the degree. 
However, a student can earn more than the number of credits, if he/she wishes. In such 
case, the highest grades in the relevant category would be considered for CGPA 
calculation.   
 
5.3    From II semester onwards, a student has to register courses in the range between 15 
and 30 credits, including the courses for which the st udent has done reappearance 
registration and supplementary examination for first semester arrear courses.  
 
5.4    The registration for the courses of the Semesters II to X will commence 7 working days 
prior to the last working day of the preceding semeste r. The student shall register for the 
courses with the guidance of the student’s Faculty Mentor . If the student wishes, the 
student may drop or add courses (vide clause 5.3) within five working days after the 
commencement of the concerned semester and comp lete the registration process . The 
student is allowed to register for additional courses equivalent to the credit 
corresponding to the passed courses in revaluation. 
 
5.5  No course shall be offered by a Department unless a minimum of 25 students register for 
that course. 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
5.6    After registering for a course, a student shall attend the classes, satisfy the attendance 
requirements (vide clause 6.1 and 6.2.1), earn continuous assessment marks and 
appear for the End Semester Examinations.  
 
5.7 The student shall register for the practical training in the VII semester  only, Dissertation 
in the VIII semester only and Thesis in the X semester only.     
 
5.8     Reappearance Registration 
5.8.1 If a student fails in a theory or theory cum studio course, they shall do reappearance 
registration for that course when it is offered next. Student can opt either to retain or re -
earn the Continuous Assessment Marks and attend the end semester  Terminal 
Examination. If a student opts for re -earning the continuous assessment marks, the 
earlier earned continuous assessment marks will be nullified.  
      5.8.2 a)   If a student fails in a theory or theory cum studio course  in  Programme electives or 
Elective Foundation categories, he/she may register for the same course or any other 
course in the respective category. If a student  registers for other course, he/she has to 
satisfy all the requirements in Clauses 6 and 9. 
b) If a student fails in Dissertation and desires to continue with the same course, the 
student has to repeat the course when offered next.  In this case, the student shall 
attend the classes/review, satisfy the attendance requirements (vide clause 6), earn 
Continuous Assessment Marks and appear for the End Semester Viva Voce 
Examinations. The facility of Reappearance Registration is not available for 
Dissertation. 
c)  The student who fails in any Studio Course/ Thesis , his/her Continuous 
Assessment Marks is valid for only one subsequent attempt. After one subsequent 
attempt (clause 10.4.4) the student shall register for the same, when offered next, and 
repeat the course. In this case, the student shall attend the classes, satisfy the 
attendance requirements (vide clause 6), earn Continuous Assessment Marks and 
appear for the End Semester Viva -Voce Examinations. The facility of Reappearance 
Registration is not available for such courses. 
d) The student who fails in Practical Training shall repeat the course again, when 
offered next.  
  
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
5.8.3 If a student is prevented from taking the end semester examination of a course (theory / 
theory cum studio / studio) due to lack of attendance, studen t has to register for that 
course again, when offered next, attend the classes and fulfill the attendance 
requirements as per clause 6. If the course, in which student has lack of attendance, is a 
Programme  Elective or an Elective Foundation Courses, stud ent may register for some 
other Programme Elective or Elective Foundation course respectively in the subsequent 
semesters. 
 
5.8.4 A student who has already appeared for a course in a semester and passed the 
examination is not entitled to reappear the same course for improvement of Grade/Marks. 
 
6.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE END SEMESTER EXAMINATION OF A 
COURSE  
6.1   A student who has fulfilled the following conditions shall be deemed to be eligible to 
appear for the end semester examination. 
  Ideally, every student is expected to attend all the classes and earn 100% attendance. 
Students who have earned not less than 75% attendance course wise taking into 
account the number of periods required for that course as specified in the curriculum.  
• Students who have earned attendance less than 65% will not be permitted to appear 
for End Semester Examination for that course. The student has to register and repeat 
that particular course in a subsequent semester when it is offered next.      
• However, exemption may be given for the students who earned attendance between 
65% and less than 75% in a particular course from the prescribed attendance 
requirement based on medical leave (hospitalization / accident / specific illness) and 
On Duty leave for participation in the College / University / State / National / 
International level Sports events (Vide clause 6.1.3) with prior approval from the 
Principal / competent authority. Such student shall be permitted to apply for 
condonation to the Principal  through the respective Head of the Department. After the 
approval from the principal, the student shall be permitted to appear for the end 
semester examination for that cour se by paying the prescribed fee . However, the 
students who have represented the college in NCC/NSS/Sports are exempted from the 
Condonation. 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
• His / her progress has been satisfactory and obtained bona fide certificate in the 
Record of all the Practical courses in the semester, and  
• His / her conduct has been satisfactory. 
6.1.1  Student who is permitted by the respective Head of the Department to carry out Practical 
Training should submit the attendance certificate from the competent authority at every 
project review meetings and at the time of project report submission.  
6.1.2  A student shall be permitted to appear for the terminal examinations only if, 
a. he/she satisfies the attendance requirements   
b. the student’s conduct has been satisfactory  
c. he/she has paid the examination fees and reg istered for the examinations for all the 
courses of that semester by paying the prescribed examination fees within the due 
date. If any student fails to register and pay the examination fees within the due date, 
he /she shall not be permitted to attend the end semester examinations.  
6.1.3    The students who are consistently good in academics ONLY be considered for the grant                
of ODL under co -curricular / extra-curricular activities by the competent authorities. The 
following activities shall be considered for the award of ODL: 
• Sports and Games: TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zonal, Inter University, State level, 
National level and Open Tournaments. 
• NCC: Camps and expeditions, NSS camps 
• Cultural Programs at State, National and International level  
• Seminar / Symposia: Paper presentation / Quiz 
• Leadership course organized by other organizations & Alumni Association activities, 
Association Activities, Placement Activities 
• NASA( National Association of Students of Architecture) 
• Zonal NASA Conventions. 
• Training Programs/internship at Industries and Higher Learning Institutions 
• Personal damages incurred during the extra-curricular activities. 
• The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to the Principal through the Head of the 
Department of the student by the staff -in-charge of the respective activities 
before/immediately after completion of every activity.  
• The ODL sanctioned letters shall be submitted to the Department office.  The faculty-
in-charge of the department office will check the eligibility for the award of 
attendance at the end of semester and the same may be submitted to the Head of 
the Department for approval. 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
7.0      FACULTY  MENTOR 
To help the students in planning their courses of study and for general advice on the 
academic programme, the Head of the Department will attach a certain number of 
students (20 to 25) to a faculty member of the Department. He /she shall function as 
Faculty Advisor for these students throughout their period of study.  The faculty advisor 
shall  
• Advise the students in registering and reappearance registering of courses 
• Monitor their attendance, academic progress and discipline of the students 
• Counsel periodi cally or during the Faculty Advisor/Tutor/Proctor -ward meeting 
scheduled in the class time table. 
• Inform the students about the various facilities and activities available to enhance the 
student’s curricular and co-curricular activities. 
• If necessary, the faculty mentor may also discuss with or inform the parents about 
the progress of the students through the Head of the Department or in the parent –
teacher meeting. 
 
8. 0 ACADEMIC COMMITTEES 
8.1     Class Committee  
• The objective of the Class Committee is to improve the teaching -learning process. The 
functions of the class committee include: 
• Resolving difficulties experienced by students in the classroom and in the laboratories.                                                                                      
• Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules therein. 
• Discussing the progress of academic schedule and deviations if any. 
• Evaluating the performance of the students of the class after each test and fi nding the 
ways and means of improvement. 
•  Every class in first semester of study shall have a class committee consisting of faculty 
members who are teaching in that class, student representatives (cross section of 
students from boys and girls) and a chairperson who is a faculty not handling the course 
for the class.   
• From II semester onwards, Class committee comprises of all the faculty members who 
are handling courses in that particular semester and one student nominee  from each 
course. A chairperson who is a faculty not handling course for that particular semester, 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
nominated by the Head of the Department shall coordinate the activities of this 
committee. 
• The class committee shall be constituted by the Head of the Department/Chief Tutor on 
the first week of commencement of the semester. 
• The class committee shall meet three times in a semester: 
• The first meeting within 10 days from the date of commencement of the semester.  
• The second meeting a week after the first Internal test results. 
• The third meeting a week before the last lecture day of the semester. 
• The Principal may participate in any class committee of the institution.  
• During these meetings, the representative of the class shall meaningfully interact and 
express the opinions and suggestion s of the other students of the class to improve the 
effectiveness of the teaching-learning process. 
• The Chairperson is required to prepare the minutes of the meeting, signed by the 
members and submit the same to Head of the Department within five working d ays of 
the meeting. Head of the Department will in turn consolidate and forward the same to the 
Principal/Dean, within 10 working days of the meeting. 
• In each meeting, the action taken report of the previous meeting is to be presented by 
the Chairperson of the class committee. 
 
9. 0  SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION  
9.1 B.Arch. Programme consists of Theory Courses, Theory cum Studio Courses and Studio   
Courses.   
Performance in each course of study  shall be evaluated based on (i) Continuous 
Assessments throughout the semester and (ii) End Semester Examination at the end of 
the semester.  
For Theory courses and Theory  cum Studio Courses including Programme elective 
courses and  Elective Foundation Courses,  out of 100 marks, the maximum marks  for 
Continuous Assessment is 50 and the End Semester Terminal Examination will be 
conducted for 100marks which will be reduced to 50 marks.  
For Theory cum Studio Courses like Dissertation, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks 
for Continuous Assessment is 50 and the End Semester Terminal Examination (viva voce) 
will be conducted for 100marks which will be reduced to 50 marks. 
For the Skill based courses like Visual Arts, Architectural workshop, Representation I and 
Representation II , shall be evaluated based on Continuous Assessment only, for a 
maximum of 100 marks.  
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
For Studio Courses like Fundamentals of Design, Architectural Design, Architectural 
Thesis out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous Assessment is 60 and the 
End Semester Viva Voce Examination will be conducted for 100marks which will be 
reduced to 40 marks.  
For Studio Courses like Practical Training out of 100 marks, the maximum marks  for 
Continuous Assessment is 50 and the End Semester Viva Voce Examination will be 
conducted for 100marks which will be reduced to 50 marks.  
S. No Categorization of courses Continuous 
Assessment  
End Semester 
Examinations/
Viva 
Total marks 
1. Theory Courses 50 50 100 
2. Theory cum Studio Courses 50 50 100 
3. Theory cum Studio - Skill 
based Courses 
100 - 100 
4. Dissertation 50 50 
 
100 
5. Studio Courses 60 40 100 
6. Practical Training 50 50 100 
7. Architectural Thesis 60 40 100 
8. Industry Supported Courses / 
Onsite courses/ Online 
courses / Guided Study 
             -             100 100 
 
 
9.2 Assessment for Theory Courses 
 Theory courses  
Continuous Assessment comprises of two assessments, conducted by the course 
instructor / coordinator / department. One assessment will be in the form of internal test. 
The other will be through assignments  (assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini projects/site 
study/ field visit report / working model / evaluation report / test report / 
drawings/construction yard exercises) 
 
The total marks obtained in the test and the assignment  put together shall be reduced 
to 50.  
 
The apportioning of marks shall be as follows: 
▪ 30 marks for test 
▪ 20 marks for assignments 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
9.3 Assessment for Theory cum Studio Courses  
The award of marks for continuous assessment shall be based on two evaluations out of 
which one will be in the form of written test. The other will be in the form of assignments 
(assignment/tutorials/seminars/mini projects/site study/ field visit report / working model / 
evaluation report / test report / drawings/construction yard exercises) 
 
Test will be conducted as per the schedule given in the academic calendar which carries 
a maximum of 50 marks. 
 
The apportioning of marks shall be as follows: 
▪ 20 marks for test 
▪ 30 marks for assignments 
The assignments shall be subject specific in the form of field visit report / working model 
/evaluation report / test report / drawings/construction yard exercises/viva etc. 
  
9.4 Assessment for Theory cum Studio Courses (Skill Based)  
The assessment of Theory cum studio courses like Re presentation I, Representation II, 
Architectural Workshop, Visual Arts, etc., will be based on the Continuous Assessment 
only. The evaluation will be carried out in the form of 
assignments/drawings/sketches/report etc. for a maximum of 100 marks only.  The 
weightage for these evaluations shall be discussed and recommended by the 
Department Committee constituted by the Head of the Department. 
 
9.5 Assessment for Dissertation 
The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Dissertation shall be carried out for 50 
marks. Every candidate shall submit at the end of the VII semester a topic approved by a 
Dissertation review committee, which shall comprise of the Dissertation Coordinator, 
Supervisor and one External member, constituted by the Head of the Department. The 
dissertation shall be evaluated for 50 marks by the Dissertation review committee, 
through continuous assessment with a minimum of 4 reviews (including one topic 
selection r eview which will not be evaluated)  throughout the semester. The External 
Review member will be appointed by the Controller of Examination from a panel 
recommended by the Head of the Department. 
 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
9.6  Assessment for Studio Courses  
9.6.1 The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Studio Courses like Fundamentals of Design 
and Architectural Design will be carried out for 60 marks for the performance of the 
candidate in the studio projects throughout the semester. A minimum of 2 studio projects 
shall be done in a semester of which one shall be a time project for a period of not less 
than 2 working days. The evaluation weightage for these studio projects shall be 
discussed and recommended by the Department Committee constituted by the Head of 
the Department. 
  
9.7     Assessment for Practical Training 
9.7.1 Every student shall undergo Practical Training in the VII Semester. The student shall 
undergo Practical Training in architectural firms/offices under architects registered with 
the Council of Architecture, India  with a minimum of 5 years professional standing with 
the approval of the Head of the Department.  
  
 If the student wishes to undergo training outside India, it should be under an architect 
registered with the Governing body for Architects of that Country  with a minimum of 5 
years professional standing. This should be duly approved by the Department 
Committee two weeks prior to the training period. 
 
9.7.2 Ideally every student is required to undertake the entire duration of Practical Training in 
the VII semester  in a single architectural firm/office. However, under unforeseen 
circumstances, if the student wishes to change his/ her place of Practical Training, 
student shall be allowed to do so only once. 
9.7.3 The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Studio Course s like Practical Training  shall 
be carried out for 50 marks for the entire period of the practical training during the VII 
semester. A minimum of three evaluations shall be in the form of Monthly Progress 
report, Work diary, Portfolio, Site visits etc. The  evaluation weightage for these studio 
subjects shall be discussed and recommended by the Department Committee 
constituted by the Head of the Department.  
9.7.4  For the Practical Training, End semester examination shall be conducted in the form of 
a viva -voce e xamination at the end of the VII  semester by an internal and external 
examiner appointed by the Head of the Department and approved by the Controller of 
Examinations. 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
9.8   Assessment for Architectural Thesis 
Every candidate shall submit a synopsis at the end of IX Semester to be approved by 
the Department Committee constituted by the Head of the Department. The thesis 
review committee constituted by the Head of the Department shall comprise of the 
Coordinator of the Thesis, one internal member/Visiting Faculty, the Supervisor and Two 
External members. The Thesis shall be evaluated for 60 marks by the Thesis review 
committee through continuous assessment with a minimum of 5 reviews (including one 
topic selection  review which will not be evaluated) throughout the semester. The 
External Review members will be appointed by the Controller of Examination from a 
panel recommended by the Head of the Department. 
 
9.9    Assessment for Online Course 
Students may be permit ted to register for online courses (which are provided with 
certificate) with the prior approval of Department Committee and Academic Council to a 
maximum of three credits. Department Committee constituted by the Head of the 
Department will take decision o n the evaluation methodology for the online course. The 
Committee can decide the Scheme of Evaluation and same may be conveyed to the 
Controller of Examinations, at the beginning of the semester when the course is offered. 
The student needs to obtain certi fication or credit to become eligible for writing the End 
Semester Terminal Examination. The Head of the Department may identify a faculty 
member as a coordinator for the course, who is responsible for the evaluation process. The 
End Semester Examination shall be in the form of written Test/Viva Voce.  
9.10   Assessment for Guided Study Course  
The syllabus of the course and mode of assessments shall be approved by the 
Department Committee constituted by the Head of the Department, Academic Council 
and forw arded to the Controller of Examinations before the commencement of the 
semester. One Faculty member approved by the Head of the Department shall be 
responsible for the periodic monitoring and evaluation of the course.  
9.11 Assessment for Onsite Study Course 
Students may be permitted to register onsite study courses (which are provided with 
certificate) with the approval of Departmental Committee constituted by the Head of the 
Department and Academic Council subject to a maximum of three credits.  The stude nt 
needs to obtain certification to become eligible for writing the End Semester Terminal 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
Examination to be conducted by Controller of Examinations. The Head of the Department 
may identify a faculty member as coordinator for the course, who is responsible for the 
evaluation process. The course shall be evaluated through the End Semester Terminal 
Examination only in the form of written test/Viva Voce.  
9.12 Assessment for Industry Supported Courses  
           Industry supported One credit Courses and Two credit Courses shall be organized by the 
department for a period of 14 or 28 hours. The evaluation will be carried out at the end of 
the course for a maximum of 100 marks in the form of test/ report/ viva -voce/practical by 
the course coordinator. These courses are evaluated by the respective course coordinator 
of the programme. If a student who registers for industry supported one -credit or two 
credit courses does not successfully complete the course, the registration of that course 
will be considered as cancelled. Further, it will not be treated as arrear and no 
supplementary examination will be conducted; alternatively, if he/she wishes, he/she can 
re-register for the same course in the ensuing semesters and successfully complete it  as 
and when it is offered subsequently. 
9.13 A student can apply for revaluation of his/her semester examination answer paper in 
theory and theory cum Studio courses, within a week from the declaration of results, on 
payment of a prescribed fee through pr oper application to the Controller of 
Examinations. The Controller of Examination will arrange for the revaluation and the 
results will be published before the commencement of supplementary examinations. 
Revaluation is not permitted for practical courses, project work and industry supported 
courses. 
9.14 Students can go through the answer script for re -totaling before they apply for 
revaluation after the publication of the results. 
9.15 A student can apply for revaluation of his/her semester examination answer paper in 
theory and theory cum Studio courses, within a week from the declaration of results, on 
payment of a prescribed fee through proper application to the Controller of 
Examinations. The Controller of Examination will arrange for the revaluation and the 
results will be published before the commencement of supplementary examinations. 
practical courses, project work and industry supported courses 
9.16.  Revaluation is not permitted  for Studio Courses like Architectural Design , Theory cum 
Studio Courses like Dissertation, Computer application in Design, 3D Modeling and Skill 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
based Theory cum Studio – Skill based courses like Representation I, Representation II, 
Architectural Graphics II, Visual Arts, Architectural Workshop  and Onsite/Online/Industry 
Supported Courses. 
10.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE 
10.1 Theory Courses 
10.1.1 For theory courses a candidate shall be declared to have passed the examination, if he 
/ she secures minimum of 25 marks out of 50 in the end semester terminal examination 
with a minimum aggregate of 50 marks in continuous assessment and end semester 
examination put together. 
10.2 Theory cum Studio Courses 
10.2.1 For Theory cum Studio courses, a candidate shall be declared to have passed the 
examination, if he / she secures minimum of 25 marks out of 50 in the End Semester 
Terminal Examination with a minimum aggregate of 50 marks in Continuous 
Assessment and End Semester Examination put together. 
 10.2.2 If a student fails to secure a pass in Dissertation and decides to register again the same 
course, the student shall repeat the course again, when offered next , and satisfy the 
requirements in Clauses 6 and 9. 
10.3 Theory cum Studio Courses (Skill Based) 
10.3.1    For Theory cum Studio courses (Skill Based), (as indicated in 3.1)) a candidate shall be 
declared to have completed the course, if he / she secures minimum of 50 out of 100 
marks in continuous assessment. 
10.3.2 If a student fails to secure a pass in a theory cum studio course (Skill Based) the student 
shall do reappearance registration for that course, when offered next and earn 
attendance and continuous assessment marks as per clauses 6 and 9.  
10.3.3 If a student fails the student  may be permitted to register for some other elective 
foundation courses or Programme elective course in the subsequent semesters, attend 
the classes and fulfill the requirements as per Clauses 6 and 9.  
  
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
10.4 Studio Courses 
10.4.1 For Fu ndamentals of Design and Architectural Design studio courses, a candidate 
shall be declared to have passed the examination if he / she secures an aggregate of 
50 marks out of 100 obtained in the Continuous Assessment and End semester 
examination put together. The End Semester Examination will be conducted as Viva-
Voce for the portfolio submitted by the candidate. 
   
10.4.2 For Practical Training, a candidate shall be declared to have passed if he / she 
secures a minimum of 50 marks out of 100 in the Continuous Assessment and the 
End Semester Examination put together. The End Semester examination will be 
conducted as Viva-Voce for the portfolio submitted by the candidate. 
   
10.4.3 For Architectural Thesis, a candidate shall be declared to have passed if he / she 
secures an aggregate of 50 marks of the total of 100 marks in the Continuous 
Assessment and the End Semester Viva Voce examination put together. 
10.4.4  If a student fails to secure a pass in examinations of studio courses comprising of 
Fundamentals of Design and  Architectural Design/ Architectural Thesis, the student 
shall resubmit an improved portfolio/works/sheets for the subsequent viva voce 
examination conducted in the following semester. The continuous assessment marks 
shall be valid for the subsequent attempt. 
In case, a student fails to secure a pass in the subsequent attempt also, in the studio 
courses comprising of Fundamentals of design and Architectural Design/ 
Architectural Thesis, the student shall repeat when the course is offered next, secure 
fresh continuous assessment and submit the portfolio/works/sheets as in the case of 
a regular student. 
10.4.5      If a student fails to secure a pass in Practical Training, the student shall repeat the 
course again, when offered next.  
10.4.6     If a student f ails to secure a pass in Dissertation, the student shall repeat the course    
again by re registration when offered next or he/she can register for other Elective 
Foundations courses.  
  
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
10.5 Award of Grades  
Range of Total Marks (TM) 
(Continuous assessment +Terminal Examination) 
Letter Grade Grade Point 
(GP) 
10090  TM
 S 10 
9080  TM
 A 9 
8070  TM
 B 8 
7060  TM
 C 7 
6050  TM
 D 6 
500  TM
 U 0 
Non-completion of a semester(Repeat course) I 0 
Withdrawal from terminal examination W 0 
Absent AA 0 


=
== N
i
i
N
i
ii
C
GPC
GPA
1
1
 
N
is the number of all courses to be registered in the particular semester,  
iGP  is the 
grade point obtained in 
thi course and 
iC is the number of credits assigned to 
thi course. 
Cumulative GPA (CGPA) will be calculated when the student is declared to be eligible 
for the award of the degree. CGPA calculation is based on all the courses considered 
(vide clause 5.2) for the award of the degree.   
  
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
11.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVING TO A HIGHER SEMESTER 
11.1      A student of the B.Arch. shall move to the higher semester if student satisfies Semester 
completion requirements (vide clause -6) and the following conditions. 
(i) To move to III semester- a pass is required in  Fundamentals of  Design (Sem I) 
(ii) To move to IV semester- a pass is required in Architectural Design I (Sem II) 
(iii) To move to V semester- a pass is required in Architectural Design II (Sem III) 
(iv)  To move to VI semester- a pass is required in  Architectural Design III (Sem IV) 
(v) To move to VII semester- a pass is required in  Architectural Design IV (Sem V)  
(vi) To move to VIII semester- a pass is required in   Architectural Design V (Sem VI) 
(vii) To move to IX semester - a pass is required inPractical Training (VII Semester) 
(viii) To move to X semester - a pass is required in Architectural Design VI (Sem VIII) 
 
 12.0 ISSUE OF GRADE CARD 
12.1   The grade card will be issued, through the head of the department every semester after 
the publication of results up to prefinal semester and a consolidated grade card will be 
issued after successful completion of all the courses and eligible for the award of degree. 
The grade card will contain the following information: 
i. The courses for which credits are earned with Course code and title 
ii. Grade obtained in each course 
iii. Cumulative grade point average earned during the course 
iv. Month and year of successful appearance 
 
13.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE 
 A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of the B.Arch. Degree 
provided   the student has 
(a) A student seeking B.Arch  degree shall be required to undergo the prescribed courses 
of study and evaluation in the college for the specified duration and to pass all the 
examinations prescribed therefore. 
(b) He/ she should enrol for all the courses prescribed in the curriculum of th e respective 
degree programme and earn the minimum number of credits (180 credits).  
(c) The maximum time limit for the completion of the B.Arch Degree programmes will be 10 
(TEN) years from the date of admission to the first semester of the programme 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
(d) The student completes the NCC / NSS /Sports requirements. 
(e) No disciplinary action pending against the student. 
14.0  CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED 
14.1. First class with Distinction 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 13.0) having pa ssed the 
examination in all registered courses in his / her first appearance (including industry 
supported courses), within SIX years including the authorized Break of Study of One 
Year, and securing a CGPA of not less than 8.50 shall be declared to have p assed in 
First class with distinction and should not have been prevented from writing end 
semester examination due to lack of attendance in any of the courses. The authorized 
break of study (vide clause 15.0) and withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 16.0) 
will not be counted as an attempt. 
14.2. First Class 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 13.0) having passed the 
examination in all the courses within SIX years including the authorized Break of Study 
of One Year and securi ng a CGPA of not less than 7.00 shall be declared to have 
passed in First class . The authorized break of study (vide clause 15.0) and withdrawal 
from the examination (vide clause 16.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
14.3. Second Class 
All other students (not covered in 14.1 and 14.2) who qualify for the award of degree 
having passed the examination in all the courses and fulfilling the requirements given in 
clause 13.0 above shall be declared to have passed in Second Class.  
 A student who is absent for end semester examination in a course / project work after 
having registered for the same shall be considered to have appeared in that (except 
approved withdrawal from end semester examination) for the purpose of classification. 
15.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME 
15.1.   A student is not normally permitted to break the study temporarily. However, if a student 
intends to temporarily discontinue the programme in the middle for valid reasons (such 
as accident or hospitalization due  to prolonged ill health) and to rejoin the programme, 
he/she shall apply in advance to The Principal, through the Head of the Department 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
stating the reasons, in any case, not later than the last lecture day, provided he/she 
fulfills the requirement in Clause 6.0. 
15.2   The student permitted to rejoin the programme after the break shall be governed by the 
rules and regulations in force at the time of rejoining. 
15.3    The duration specified for passing all the courses for the purpose of classification vid e 
Clause 14.1 and 14.2 shall be increased by the period of such break of study permitted. 
15.4    The total period for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement of 
the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not exceed the m aximum 
period specified in clause 13 .0 irrespective of the period of break of study in order that 
he/she may be eligible for the award of the degree. 
15.5   If any student is detained for want of requisite attendance, progress and good conduct, 
the period spent in that semester shall not be considered as permitted 'Break of 
Study'. 
16. 0   PROVISION FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS 
16.1  A student will be permitted to withdraw in any one of the semesters except first semester 
during the entire duration of the degree programme for valid and genuine reasons by 
making an application in the office of the Controller of Examinations through the 
respective Head of the Department for withdrawal at least one day in advance of the last 
theory examination in that semester. When he / she appear subsequently, he / she have 
to appear for all the courses of that semester on registration and payment of fees. 
Subsequent appearance will not be counted as separate attempt. 
16.2  Those students who withdraw are eligible for the award of First Class and First Class 
with Distinction as per the requirement in this regard.  However he / she will not be 
considered for ranking. 
16.3   Withdrawal is permitted ONLY ONCE during the entire duration of the degree 
programme. 
16.4.  Withdrawal is not permitted to the student who has not satisfied the conditions 
prescribed in clause 6.0 as requirements for appearing in the end semester examination.  
16.5.  Withdrawal is permitted for the end semester examinations in the final semester only if 
the period of study the student concerned does not exceed 6 years as per clause 14.1. 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 09-11-2015                        Approved in 51st Academic Council Meeting on 20.02.2016 
17.0 DISCIPLINE 
 
17.1  Every student is required to observe discipline and decorous behavior both inside and 
outside the college and not to indulge in any activity, which will tend to bring down the 
prestige of the college. The Principal shall constitute a disciplinary committee  to enquire 
into acts of indiscipline and notify the institution about the disciplinary action 
recommended for approval. In case of any serious disciplinary action which leads to 
suspension or dismissal, then a special committee shall be constituted by the  Head of 
the Institution for taking the final decision.  
17.2   If a student indulges in malpractice in any Examinations, the student shall be liable for 
punitive action as prescribed by the College from time to time.  
 
18.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM  
 
The standing committee/Academic Council of the College reserves the right to revise or 
change or amend the regulations, the scheme of examinations, the curriculum and the 
syllabi from time to time if found necessary. 
19.0 SPECIAL CASES 
In the eve nt of any clarification in the interpretation of the above rules and regulations, 
they shall be referred to the Standing Committee.  The Standing Committee will offer 
suitable interpretations/ clarifications /amendments required for special case on such 
references and get them ratified in the next meeting of the Academic Council. The 
decision of the Academic Council is final. 
 
 