Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai – 625 015 
(An ISO 9001:2000 certified Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University ) 
Ph.D. (FT /PT) / M.S. by Research - Process Flow Chart 
Revised by academic research section Approved by Principal/Registrar 
 
 
 
 
Sequence Activity description Supporting Documents / Letters  Responsibility Remarks 
 
 
 
Activity 1 
Submission of Application 
 
1.1 Getting Principal’s approval for carrying research work 
at TCE 
 
Candidate’s requisition letter in the 
prescribed PhD Permission Request 
Form [Form AR-1] 
   
Candidate in the 
respective 
Department 
• Approved letter copy (AR-1 Form)  should be 
maintained by Department R & D coordinator.  
• Copy of the AR-1 form should be maintained by the 
applicant and submitted at the time of enrollment at 
TCE on selection. 
1.2 Forwarding the duly filled application form to the 
University 
University Application Form Supervisor • Copy of the application form should be maintained 
by the applicant and the Supervisor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activity 2 
Registration at TCE after University admission 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1 Enrolment at College Office  
 
Enrolment at TCE in the prescribed 
form [Form AR-2] with 
• Copy of the University 
Admission Letter 
• Copy of Form AR-1 
• Proof for the payment of 
admission fee at TCE 
 
 
 
Research Section  
• A separate file for Form AR -2 should be maintained 
for PhD/MS Enrolments (Batch-wise Nominal Roll) at 
College Research Section. 
• List of New Enrolments (semester -wise Nominal 
Roll) should be consolidated and forwarded to:  
• Account section for verification, 
• Library for issuing library tokens 
• TAMs coordinator (Main office) for issuing ID 
Cards. 
 
 
2.2. Issue of TCE - ID card 
 
ID Card Requisition / Renewal in the 
prescribed form [Form AR-3] 
 
 
Research Section 
• Form AR -3 should be maintained by in -charge of 
TCE ID Cards 
• Temporary ID can be given immediately on 
submission of Form AR -3 approved by the Head of 
respective Department 
 
2.3 Enrolment at TCE Library  
Library Access Registration / Renewal 
in the prescribed form [Form AR-3] 
Library • Copy of Form AR-3 should be maintained by 
Librarian 
 
2.4 Enrolment at TAMS (applicable for Full time scholars 
only) 
TAMS Registration in the prescribed  
form [Form AR-3] 
 
TCENET Office 
 
• Copy of Form AR-3 should be maintained by TAMS  
Coordinator (Admin-TCE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activity - 3 
Course works 
 
 
 
 
3.1 Registration of course work 
 
 
 
Course work registration in the 
prescribed format [Form AR –4] 
 
 
 
Head of the 
Department 
• Course coordinators will be assigned by HOD at the 
beginning of the semester for old registrations OR 
within one month from the commencement of the 
semester for the new registrations and the same 
should be forwarded to the Principal/Dean (R&D) for  
approval. 
• Form AR -4 is maintained by the Research section 
Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai – 625 015 
(An ISO 9001:2000 certified Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University ) 
Ph.D. (FT /PT) / M.S. by Research - Process Flow Chart 
Revised by academic research section Approved by Principal/Registrar 
 
 
and Dept. R & D Coordinator 
 
 
 
3.2 Forwarding of course work registration to Controller of 
Examinations (COE) 
 
 
Details of courses Ph.D work along 
with the copies of the approved 
course work registration forms. 
 
 
Research Section 
CLC (R&D) 
• Course works will be approved by Principal/ Dean 
• Scholars have to pay the course work fee and submit 
the copy of the chalan to research section within one 
month from the commencement of the semester. 
• Form AR -4, fee chalan and the consolidated list 
should be forwarded to COE an d also maintained at 
Research Section. 
 
 
3.3 Issue of Hall Ticket 
 
 
Attendance Report 
 
Head of the 
Department 
• Attendance report will be maintained by the course  
coordinator 
• On submission of the satisfactory % of attendance 
given by the course coordinator, Hall ticket would be  
issued. 
3.4. Submission of CAM to COE  COE foil card Course      
coordinator 
• Course coordinator would maintain the internal 
records, award CAM and submit the same to COE.  
 
 
Activity - 4 
Renewal (Every Six months) 
 
4.1 Renewal of enrolment and submission of Half -Yearly 
status report 
 
• Renewal and Half Yearly Status 
Report in the prescribed format - 
Form AR -5 [In Duplicate: Dean 
(R&D) and Department 
Coordinator]   
 
• Proof for the payment of TCE 
admission fee 
 
Research Section 
and Respective     
Department 
 
• Form AR - 5 should be maintained by Research 
Section and Department R & D Coordinator 
 
Activity - 5 
Conduct of DC / Synopsis / Final Report  meetings 
5.1 Conduct of the meetings and forwarding of the minutes 
of the meeting 
Minutes of meeting forwarded by HoD  Supervisor • Copy of minutes of meeting should be maintained by 
Supervisor 
 
 
 
 
Activity - 6 
Thesis Submission 
 
6.1 Getting clearance from Main Library,  
Main Office, Dept Library, Laboratory and Supervisor  
 
No Dues Certificate [Form AR-6] 
 
Respective 
Department 
• Form AR -6 should be maintained by Research 
Section 
• Full-time scholars should submit the No -dues 
certificate to college main office for removal of their 
name from TAMS 
• Publications should be submitted by the scholar in 
the department 
 
 
 
 
Activity - 7 
Viva- Voce Exam 
 
 
7.1 Issue of Notification Circular 
 
Affiliating University Notification 
Format endorsed by HOD / Dean 
(R&D) / Principal on ensuring the 
 
Supervisor and 
HOD 
• Copy of viva circular form should be submitted to 
Research Section and Department R & D 
Coordinator for updating the ongoing and completed 
Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai – 625 015 
(An ISO 9001:2000 certified Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University ) 
Ph.D. (FT /PT) / M.S. by Research - Process Flow Chart 
Revised by academic research section Approved by Principal/Registrar 
 
 
submission of thesis copy at TCE 
library 
list of research scholars 
• Viva voce circular shall be circulated by the 
Supervisor 
7.2 Conduct of Viva voce exam Permission letter approved by HOD. Respective 
Department 
• Permission letter should be maintained by Supervisor 
 
 
 
Activity - 8 
Change of Supervisor / Inclusion of Joint Supervisor (At the time of supervisor leaving the TCE to some other organization)  
8.1 Permission from Principal TCE  Request letter for the change of 
supervisor         
Supervisor • Principal’s approval copy should be 
maintained by Department R & D Coordinator  
8.2 Getting approval from the University  Request letter to university Supervisor • Copy should be maintained by Supervisor 
8.3 Submission of the approval of change of supervisor 
/inclusion of joint supervisor 
Copy of University approval letter Supervisor • University approval copy should be submitted to 
Dean (R&D), College Main Office and Department 
R & D Coordinator for updating their records.  
Activity - 9 Migration / Discontinuation of the  scholar    
9.1 Getting clearance from Main Library, Main Office, Dept 
Library, and Laboratories 
NO DUES CERTIFICATE in the 
prescribed form [AR-6] 
Respective 
Department 
• Form AR-6 should be maintained by Department R 
& D Coordinator 
  Refund of caution deposit 
Activity - 10 10.1 Refund of caution deposit  • Submission of Thesis Copy to 
Library 
• Claim form [AR-7] 
 
Librarian &  
Account Section 
• Thesis copy should be collected and forwarded to 
library. 
•  AR–7 form should be maintained by Account  
Section 
     
 