                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University) 
MADURAI – 625 015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 
For 
 
B.Arch DEGREE PROGRAMME  
 
2021 - 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the students admitted from the academic year 2021-2022 onwards 
 
 
 
1
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI - 625 015 
(A Govt. Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University) 
 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 
B.ARCH. DEGREE PROGRAMME 
 
(CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM) 
These Rules and Regulations are applicable to the c andidates admitted from the 
Academic year 2021 – 22 onwards 
 
1.0   PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE  
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
i. “Programme” means B. Arch Degree Programme         
ii. “ Degree” means Under Graduate (UG) Degree that is B.Arch degree. 
iii. “Course” means a theory, theory cum studio or studio subject that is normally studied in 
a semester, like Architectural Principles – World A rchitecture, Fundamentals of Building 
Systems, Architectural Design, etc. 
iv. “ University” means Anna University. 
2.0 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION  
2.1 Students for admission to the first semester of th e Ten semester B.Arch. Degree 
Programme shall be required to have a pass in Highe r Secondary Examination 
(Academic 10+2) curriculum or its equivalent examin ations with 50% marks in Physics, 
Chemistry & Mathematics and also 50% marks in aggre gate of the 10+2 level 
examination or 10+3 Diploma Examination with Mathematics as compulsory subject with 
at least 50% marks in aggregate. 
2.2    Notwithstanding the qualifying examinations, the st udent shall have passed an aptitude 
test as specified by the Council of Architecture in the minimum standards of Architectural 
Education and Regulations or any other statutory au thorities dealing with Architectural 
Education. 
2.3 The eligibility criteria such as marks, number of attempts and physical fitness shall be as 
prescribed by affiliating University and Directorate of Technical Education, Chennai, from 
time to time. 
2
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
 
3.0 STRUCTURE OF THE PROGRAMME  
3.1  Categorization of Courses  
B.Arch. Programme will have a curriculum with sylla bi consisting of theory, theory cum 
studio, theory cum studio (Skill Based), and studio  courses with well-defined Program 
Outcomes, Program Specific Outcomes and Programme E ducational Objectives (PEO) 
as per Outcome Based Education (OBE) and Conceive-D esign-Implement-Operate 
(CDIO) framework. The content of each course is des igned based on the Course 
Outcomes (CO). The courses of the programme are categorized as follows: 
A. Foundation Courses   
a. Architecture (AR) 
b. Engineering Science (ES) 
B. Professional Core courses relevant to the chosen  programme of study. 
C. Elective Courses 
a. Foundation Elective  
i. Architecture 
ii. Engineering Science (ES) 
iii. Humanities and Social Science (HSS) 
b. Programme Elective 
i. Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope  
1. Courses offered by the Respective Department 
2. Industry Supported Course 
3. Guided Study Course 
4. Online Courses   
ii. Programme Specific Elective for Skill Enhanceme nt  
1. Courses offered by the Respective Department 
2. Industry Supported Course 
3. Guided Study Course 
4. Online Courses   
iii. General Elective (Interdisciplinary)  
D. Mandatory Audit Courses prescribed by AICTE / UG C 
● Foundation Courses: Courses which provides basic foundation to the core  courses or 
supplement the core courses like Architectural Prin ciples – World Architecture, Theory of 
Design etc 
 
3
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
● Professional Core Courses: Courses include the core courses relevant to the ch osen 
specialization/branch like Foundation of Design, Architectural Design etc 
● Foundation Elective Courses: Courses which leads to knowledge enhancement selected 
from a pool of courses under specific streams like Architecture, Engineering Science, 
Humanities and Social Science. 
● Programme Elective Courses:  
o Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope:  Courses which are advanced/ 
courses with latest technologies or courses which are supportive to the discipline.  
o Programme Specific Elective for Skill Enhancement:  Courses which are Supportive 
(specific or specialized) to the discipline of study.  
o General Elective: Courses which are chosen from varied discipline lik e English, Civil 
Engineering department, Mechanical department etc. 
● Mandatory Audit Courses: Students shall register at least any one of the Man datory 
Audit courses as and when offered. Courses such as Constitution of India, Essence of 
Indian Traditional Knowledge, Yoga, English for Research Paper Writing, Value education, 
Stress Management and Personality Development throu gh Life Enlightenment Skills, etc, 
which are mandated by AICTE/UGC shall be registered  by the student as and when 
offered.  
The recommended distribution of credits for each category is given in Table 1. 
Table1: Credit Distribution 
S.No Category Credits 
A Foundation Courses (CFC) 87 
 Architecture (58)  
 Engineering Science (ES)                                        (29)  
B Foundation Elective  15-24 
 Architecture 6-9  
 Engineering Sciences (ES) 3-6  
 Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) 6-9  
C Professional Core Courses 149 
D Programme Elective  9-21 
 Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope  6- 12  
 Programme Specific Elective for Skill Enhancement 3-6  
 General Elective 0-3  
E Mandatory Courses prescribed by AICTE/UGC  
(Not included  for CGPA) 
- 
 Minimum Credits to be earned for the award of the Degree 260 
(from A to D) and the 
successful  completion of 
Mandatory Courses 
  
4
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
3.2  Personality and Character Development  
 All students shall register, on admission, in any o ne of the personality and character 
development programmes (NCC/NSS) and undergo traini ng and attends camps as 
prescribed by the respective officers / coordinators. The training shall include classes on 
hygiene and health awareness and also training in first aid. 
● National Cadet Corps (NCC) will have a number of parades/camps specified by the 
NCC officer. 
● National Service Scheme (NSS) will have social service activities in and around the 
college specified by the NSS coordinator 
● Sports, games, drills and physical exercises specified by the Physical Director 
 While the training activities will normally be dur ing weekends, the camp will normally be 
during vacation period. Every student shall put in a minimum attendance in the training 
and attend the camp.  
3.3 Credit Assignment 
 Each course is assigned certain number of credits based on the following: 
            Table 2: Credit Assignment 
Contact period per week CREDITS 
1 hour Lecture Period 1 
1 hours Tutorial Period 1 
1 hours Studio/Practical Periods  1 
3.4       Number of Courses/ Credits per semester 
Curriculum of a semester shall normally have a blen d of theory courses, theory cum 
studio courses, and studio courses. Each course may  have credits assigned as per 
clause 3.3. However, the total number of courses pe r semester shall not exceed 6. The 
maximum number of credits the student can register in a particular semester cannot 
exceed 28 credits (excluding courses for which the student has done reappearance 
registration (vide clause 5.7). 
3.5      Educational Tour / Study Tour 
Educational Tour as Study Tour or as Case study visits shall be part of the course 
and conducted every year.  They help to consolidate course contents by acquai nting 
students not only with professional practice but al so the culture and context of a region. 
At the end of the study tour, the students shall su bmit a report that gives an overall 
understanding of the place(s) through different mod es as found appropriate- sketches, 
analysis, cognitive mapping, digital documentation, essays, etc. 
5
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
3.6 Industry supported Courses 
3.6.1 Students can opt for one-credit courses and two cr edit courses offered by experts from 
industry /research organizations and approved by ac ademic council. Students can 
register for such courses from his/her third year o nwards. A student is also permitted to 
register for these courses of other departments, pr ovided the student has fulfilled the 
necessary pre-requisites of the courses being offered and subject to the approval of both 
the heads of the departments. However, a student ca n register for only one course in a 
semester under Programme Specific Elective for Expa nded Scope or Programme 
Specific Elective for Skill Enhancement in Programm e Elective category. These courses 
are evaluated by the respective course coordinator of the programme. The maximum 
number of credits that can be earned from industry supported courses is limited to 4.  
3.6.2 If a student does not successfully complete the reg istered industry supported one-credit 
or two credit courses in a semester, the registrati on of that course will be considered as 
cancelled. Further, it will not be treated as arrear and no supplementary examination will 
be conducted; alternatively, if he/she wishes, he/she can re-register for the same course 
in the ensuing semesters and successfully complete it as and when it is offered 
subsequently. 
3.7 Guided Study Course 
A student, who does not have history of arrear in the programme and CGPA greater than 
8.0, can study ONE course under Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope or 
Programme Specific Elective for Skill Enhancement i n Programme Elective category 
after his/her Third year of study, as a guided stud y course. One faculty member 
approved by the Head of the Department shall be responsible for the periodic monitoring 
and evaluation of the course. The student does not need to attend the classes. However, 
the student has to appear for continuous assessment  tests and submit assignments to 
the respective faculty-in-charge assigned by the He ad of the Department. The 
assessment and evaluation for theory and theory cum  studio courses is as per vide 
clause 10.1 and 10.2 respectively. 
3.8 Online Courses  
Students may be permitted to register for online co urses (which are provided with 
certificate after evaluation of the performance), during fourth to ninth semester of his/her 
study with the prior approval of Department Committ ee nominated by the Head of the 
6
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
Department and approval from Academic Council. On s uccessful completion of the 
course, he/she has to submit the copy of the certificate to the Head of the Department for 
exemption from registering for an elective course. Based on the recommendation by the 
team of faculty members nominated by the Head of th e Department, the student will be 
awarded grade and credits in Programme Specific Ele ctive or Programme Specific 
Elective for Expanded Scope sub-categories. The rec ommendation will be sent to The 
Controller of Examinations after the approval by the Head of the Department. 
3. 9  General Elective 
General electives are courses offered by different departments from his / her second 
year onwards. These courses do not have any prerequ isites and could be chosen as 
electives by students of any programme. Students sh ould opt for the courses offered 
from other departments only. 
3.10    Medium of Instruction 
The medium of instruction is English for all Course s, Examinations, Design Studios, 
Seminar, Presentations and Project/Thesis reports. 
4.0     DURATION OF THE PROGRAMMES 
4.1  A student is ordinarily expected to complete the B.Arch. Programme in 10 semesters (5 
years) but in any case not more than 8 years (16 Se mesters).  However, in special 
circumstances a candidate may be granted an extra 1  year by the University or 
Institution to complete the course.  
4.2 Each semester normally consists of 90 working days  (including examination days). In 
any contingent situation the number of working days per semester shall not be less than 
65 days.  The Principal is given the discretionary powers to decide the number of 
working days in such contingencies. The Principal s hall ensure that every teacher 
imparts instruction as per the number of periods sp ecified in the syllabus and that the 
teacher teaches the full content of the specified syllabus for the course being taught. 
4.3 For the purpose of regulations, the academic year will be divided into two semesters, the 
odd semester normally spanning from June to Novembe r and the even semester from 
December to May. 
4.4 The total duration for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement 
of the first semester to which the student was admi tted shall not exceed the maximum 
duration specified in clause 4.1 irrespective of th e period of break of study (vide clause 
7
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
16.0) or prevention in order that the student may b e eligible for the award of the degree 
(vide clause 14). 
5.0  COURSE REGISTRATION  
5.1 Each student on regular admission shall register f or all the courses prescribed in the 
curriculum in the student’s first year of study. 
5.2      A student has to earn the minimum number of 260 Credits as specified in the curriculum 
of the programme of study in order to be eligible t o obtain the degree. However, a 
student can earn more than the number of credits, i f he/she wishes. In such case, the 
highest grades in the relevant category would be considered for CGPA calculation.   
5.3     The registration for the courses, from third semester, will commence three days after the 
declaration of the examination results of preceding  semester. The student shall register 
for the courses with the guidance of the student’s Tutor/Faculty Mentor. If the student 
wishes, the student may add or drop courses within five working days after the 
commencement of the concerned semester and complete the registration process. 
5.4 No course shall be offered by a Department unless a minimum of 20 students register for 
that course. 
5.5    After registering for a course, a student shall att end the classes, satisfy the attendance 
Requirements (vide clause 6), earn Continuous Asses sment marks and appear for the 
Terminal examinations, except for the arrear courses.  
5.6 The student shall register for the Architectural De sign Studios, Practical Training and 
Thesis in the respective semesters only.     
5.7     Reappearance Registration 
5.7.1 If a student fails in a theory or a Theory-cum-Stu dio course, the student shall do 
reappearance registration for that course in the su bsequent semester by retaining the 
Continuous Assessment Marks already earned in the n ext two attempts of his/her 
choice. For further attempts, only the marks earned  in the supplementary examination 
will be considered for passing the course as prescr ibed in the Scheme of Examinations 
(Minimum Marks for Pass). 
5.7.2 If a student fails in a theory or theory cum studi o course, in Programme Electives or 
Foundation Elective Courses, he/she may register fo r the same course or any other 
course in the respective category in the subsequent semesters. If a student registers for 
8
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
other courses, he/she has to satisfy all the requirements in Clauses 6 and 9. 
5.7.3 The student who fails in any Studio / Thesis Cours e his/her Continuous Assessment 
Marks is valid for only one subsequent attempt. Aft er one subsequent attempt (clause 
11.4.4) the student shall register for the same course, when offered next, and repeat the 
course. In this case, the student shall attend the classes, satisfy the attendance 
requirements (vide clause 6), earn Continuous Asses sment Marks and appear for the 
Terminal Viva -Voce Examinations. The facility of R eappearance Registration is not 
available for such courses. 
5.7.4 The student who fails in Practical Training shall r epeat the course again, when offered 
next.  
5.7.5 If a student is prevented from taking the terminal examinations of a course (theory / 
theory cum studio / studio) due to lack of attendan ce, student has to register for the 
same course again when offered next, attend the cla sses and fulfill the attendance and 
Continuous assessment marks requirements as per clause 6 and clause 9 respectively. 
If the course, in which student has lack of attenda nce, is a Programme Elective or a 
Foundation Elective Courses, student may register f or the same or some other 
Programme Elective or Foundation Elective course re spectively in the subsequent 
semesters and fulfill the attendance and Continuous assessment marks requirements as 
per clause 6 and clause 9 respectively. 
5.7.6 A student who has already appeared for a course in a semester and passed the 
examination is not entitled to reappear the same co urse for improvement of Grade / 
Marks. 
6.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE TERMINAL EXA MINATIONS OF A 
COURSE  
6.1   A student who has fulfilled the following condition s shall be deemed to be eligible to 
appear for the Terminal Examination. 
●  Ideally, every student is expected to attend all th e classes and earn 100% 
attendance. Students who have earned not less than 75% attendance in all the 
courses taking into account the number of periods r equired for that course as 
specified in the curriculum.  
● Students who have earned attendance less than 75% will not be permitted to appear 
for terminal examinations for that course. The student has to register and repeat that 
particular course in a subsequent semester when it is offered next.     However, 
exemption may be given for the students who earned attendance between 65% and 
9
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
less than 75% in a particular course from the presc ribed attendance requirement 
based on medical leave (hospitalization / accident / specific illness) and On Duty 
leave for participation in the College / University / State / National / International level 
Sports events (Vide clause 6.4) with prior approval  from the Principal / competent 
authority. Such student shall be permitted to apply  for Condonation to the Principal 
through the respective Head of the Department. After the approval from the principal, 
the student shall be permitted to appear for the terminal examinations for that course 
by paying the prescribed fee. However, the students  who have represented the 
college in NCC/NSS/Sports are exempted from the Condonation fee. 
● His / her conduct has been satisfactory. 
6.2  Student who is permitted by the respective Head of the Department to carry out Practical 
Training should submit the attendance certificate f rom the competent authority at every 
project review meetings and at the time of project report submission.  
6.3  A student shall be permitted to appear for the te rminal examinations only if, 
a. he/she satisfies the attendance requirements   
b. the student’s conduct has been satisfactory  
c. he/she has paid the examination fees and registe red for the examinations for all the 
courses of that semester by paying the prescribed e xamination fees within the due 
date specified by the Office of the Controller of E xaminations. If any student fails to 
register and pay the examination fees within the du e date, he /she shall not be 
permitted to attend the terminal examinations. Howe ver, he/she will be permitted to 
continue their studies in the next higher semester,  provided that the student should 
satisfy the requirements as stipulated in this clau se of this regulations and to write 
the current semester courses and arrear courses if any, in the next supplementary 
examination as arrear courses on registration and payment of fees. It will be counted 
as an attempt for the student. 
6.4     The students who are consistently good in acad emics ONLY be considered for the grant                
of ODL under co-curricular / extra-curricular activ ities by the competent authorities. The 
following activities shall be considered for the award of ODL: 
● Sports and Games: TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zo nal, Inter University, State level, 
National level and Open Tournaments. 
● NCC: Camps and expeditions, NSS camps 
● Cultural Programs at State, National and Internati onal level  
● Seminar / Symposia: Paper presentation / Quiz 
10
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
● Leadership course organized by other organizations  & Alumni Association activities, 
Association Activities, Placement Activities 
● NASA( National Association of Students of Architec ture) 
● Zonal NASA Conventions. 
● Training Programs/internship at Industries and Hig her Learning Institutions 
● Personal damages incurred during the extra-curricu lar activities. 
● The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to t he Principal through the Head of the 
Department of the student by the staff-in-charge of  the respective activities before 
completion of every activity.  
● The ODL sanctioned letters shall be submitted to t he Department office.  The faculty-
in-charge of the department office will check the eligibility for the award of attendance 
at the end of semester and the same may be submitte d to the Head of the 
Department for approval. 
6.5 Those students who are not deemed to have completed  the semester with reference to 
the conditions specified above shall undergo the semester again in all the courses in the 
respective semester during next academic year. 
7.0      FACULTY MENTOR  
To help the students in planning their courses of s tudy and for general advice on the 
academic programme, the Head of the Department will  attach a certain number of 
students (Maximum 20 to 25) to a faculty member of the Department. He /she shall 
function as Faculty Advisor for these students thro ughout their period of study.  The 
faculty advisor shall  
● Advise the students in registering and reappearanc e registering of courses 
● Monitor their attendance, academic progress and di scipline of the students 
● Counsel periodically or during the Faculty Advisor /Tutor/Proctor-ward meeting 
scheduled in the class time table. 
● Inform the students about the various facilities a nd activities available to enhance the 
student’s curricular and co-curricular activities. 
If necessary, the faculty mentor may also discuss w ith or inform the parents about 
the progress of the students through the Head of th e Department or in the Parent –
Teacher meeting. 
11
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
8. 0 ACADEMIC COMMITTEES  
8.1     Class Committee  
● The objective of the Class Committee is to improve  the teaching-learning process. The 
functions of the class committee include: 
● Resolving difficulties experienced by students in the classroom and in the laboratories.                              
● Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules therein. 
● Discussing the progress of academic schedule and deviations if any. 
● Evaluating the performance of the students of the class after each test and finding the 
ways and means of improvement. 
● From I semester onwards, Class committee comprises  of all the faculty members who 
are handling courses in that particular semester and comprising minimum of five student 
representatives. A chairperson who is a faculty not  handling course for that particular 
semester, nominated by the Head of the Department shall coordinate the activities of this 
committee. 
● The class committee shall be constituted by the Hea d of the Department/Chief Tutor on 
the first week of commencement of the semester. 
● The class committee shall meet three times in a sem ester as specified in the academic 
calendar: 
● The Principal/ Dean/ Head of the Department may pa rticipate in any class committee of 
the institution.  
● During these meetings, the representative of the c lass shall meaningfully interact and 
express the opinions and suggestions of the other s tudents of the class to improve the 
effectiveness of the teaching-learning process. 
● The Chairperson is required to prepare the minutes  of the meeting, signed by the 
members and submit the same to Head of the Departme nt within five working days of 
the meeting. Head of the Department will in turn consolidate and forward the same to the 
Principal, within 10 working days of the meeting. 
● In each meeting, the action taken report of the pr evious meeting is to be presented by 
the Chairperson of the class committee. 
 
8.2 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE 
● The Performance Assessment Committee comprises of the Head of the Department / 
Course Coordinators / Course faculty members and Programme Coordinator, nominated 
by the Head of Department. This committee shall mee t to assess the attainment of 
12
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
Course Outcomes and Program Outcomes, progress and status of the students of the 
semester concerned at the beginning and end of the semesters. The committee can 
invite Faculty mentors and students as invitees 
 
9. 0 SYSTEM  OF EXAMINATION  
9.1 B.Arch. Programme consists of Theory Courses, Theo ry cum Studio Courses, Studio   
Courses, Practical Training and Architectural Thesis as given in Table.3.   
Performance in each course of study shall be evalua ted based on (i) Continuous 
Assessments throughout the semester and (ii) Termin al Examination at the end of the 
semester.  
9.1.1 For Theory courses and Theory cum Studio Courses in cluding Programme elective 
courses and Elective Foundation Courses, out of 100  marks, the maximum marks for 
Continuous Assessment is 50 and the Terminal Examin ation will be conducted for 100 
marks which will be reduced to 50 marks.  
9.1.2 For Skill based Theory cum Studio Courses includin g Programme Elective courses and 
Foundation Elective Courses, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous 
Assessment is 50 and the Terminal Examination (viva  voce) will be conducted for 100 
marks which will be reduced to 50 marks.  
9.1.3  For Studio Courses like Fundamentals of Design, A rchitectural Design, Architectural 
Thesis out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Cont inuous Assessment is 60 and the 
Terminal Viva Voce Examination will be conducted for 100 marks which will be reduced to 
40 marks. 
9.1.4  For Studio Courses like Practical Training, out o f 100 marks, the maximum marks for 
Continuous Assessment are 50 and the Terminal Viva Voce Examination will be 
conducted for 100 marks which will be reduced to 50 marks. 
Table 3: Mark Distribution 
S. 
No 
Categorization of courses Continuous 
Assessment  
Terminal  
Examinations 
Total 
Marks 
1. Theory Courses and Theory cum Studio 
Courses (Including Guided Study Courses) 
50 50 100 
2. Theory cum Studio Courses (Skill based) 50 50 10 0 
3. Architectural Design Studio and 
Architectural Thesis (Studio Courses) 
60 40 100 
4. Practical Training 50 50 100 
5. Industry Supported Courses 50 50 100 
 
13
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
9.2 Students are prohibited from entering into the Exa mination Hall / Laboratories with any 
book or portion of book, manuscript, or paper of an y description or Communicating with 
or copying from each other or communicating with anyone outside the Examination Hall / 
Laboratories. Programmable calculator, mobile phone  shall not be permitted inside the 
Examination hall / Laboratories. However, any requi red codebooks and data sheets / 
books as specified in the question paper will be su pplied inside the Examination hall / 
laboratories by the office of the Controller of Examinations. The students are warned that 
any form of Malpractice will be dealt with severely. The punishment may be canceling all 
the examinations registered by the student in that semester and debarring permanently 
from all the examinations and disciplinary action w ill be taken by the college authorities 
after conducting enquiry. 
9.3 Identity card/Hall ticket of the college must be p roduced at the time of terminal 
examination. Any student fails to produce Identity card / Hall ticket shall be levied a spot 
fine by the Chief superintendent/ Examiners. 
9.4 A student can apply for reassessment of his/her sem ester examination answer paper in 
theory, within three working days from the declarat ion of results, on payment of a 
prescribed fee, as specified by the Controller of E xaminations from time to time. The 
Controller of Examination will arrange for going th rough the answer scripts by the 
students and to make appeals. The reassessment resu lts will be published before the 
commencement of supplementary examinations. Reasses sment is not permitted for 
Studio Courses, Theory cum Studio Courses and Online/Industry Supported Courses. 
10 PROCEDURE FOR AWARDING MARKS FOR CONTINUOUS ASSE SSMENT 
10.1  Assessment for Theory Courses  
 a. The award of marks for continuous Assessment com prises of two types of 
assessments (tests and assignments), conducted by the course instructor / coordinator / 
department. One type of assessment will be in the f orm of internal tests. The other will 
be through assignments (assignments/tutorials/semin ars/mini projects/site study/ field 
visit report / working model / evaluation report / test report / drawings/construction yard 
exercises)  
The total marks obtained in the tests and the assignments put together shall be reduced 
to 50.  
The apportioning of marks shall be as follows: 
 30 marks for tests 
 20 marks for assignments. 
14
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
b. Three Tests will be conducted at regular interva ls as per the schedule given in the 
academic calendar. Each test carries maximum of 50 marks. Among the three tests, the 
best two test marks will be considered and will be reduced to 30 marks for the award of 
test based on continuous assessment marks. 
c. Both test and assignment marks put together is maximum of 50 marks and rounded to 
nearest integer if necessary. 
d. A student who is absent or has failed in the Ter minal Examinations in any theory 
course is permitted to appear for supplementary exa mination by retaining the 
Continuous Assessment already earned in the next tw o attempts of his/her choice. For 
further attempts, only the marks earned in the supp lementary examination will be 
considered for passing the course as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations 
(Minimum Marks for Pass). 
10.2 Assessment for Theory cum Studio Courses  
The award of marks for continuous assessment shall be based on two types of 
evaluations (out of which one will be in the form o f written tests). The other will be in the 
form of assignments (assignments/tutorials/seminars /mini projects/site study/ field visit 
report / working model / evaluation report / test r eport / drawings/construction yard 
exercises).  
The total marks obtained in the tests and the assignments put together shall be reduced 
to 50.  
The apportioning of marks shall be as follows: 
 20 marks for tests 
 30 marks for assignments. 
The assignments shall be subject specific in the form of field visit report / working model 
/evaluation report / test report / drawings/construction yard exercises/viva etc.  
b. Three Tests will be conducted at regular interva ls as per the schedule given in the 
academic calendar. Each test carries maximum of 50 marks. Among the three tests, the 
best two test marks will be considered and will be reduced to 20 marks for the award of 
test continuous assessment marks. 
c. Both test and assignment marks put together will  be for 50 marks maximum and 
rounded to nearest integer if necessary. 
d. A student who is absent or has failed in the Ter minal Examinations in any theory cum 
studio course is permitted to appear for supplement ary examination by retaining the 
Continuous Assessment already earned in the next tw o attempts of his/her choice. For 
15
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
further attempts, only the marks earned in the supp lementary examination will be 
considered for passing the course as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations 
(Minimum Marks for Pass). 
10.3 Assessment for Theory cum Studio Courses (Skil l Based)  
10.3.1. The assessment of Theory cum studio (Skill Based) c ourses will be carried out in the 
form of assignments/ drawings/ sketches/ report etc. for a maximum of 100 marks. The 
total marks obtained in the assessments put together shall be reduced to 50 marks and 
rounded to the nearest integer. The weightage for these evaluations shall be discussed 
and recommended by the Department Committee constit uted by the Head of the 
Department. 
10.3.2. For the Theory cum studio courses (Skill Based) T erminal Examination shall be 
conducted in the form of a viva-voce examination at  the end of the semester  by an 
internal and external examiner appointed by the Controller of Examination from a panel 
recommended by the Head of the Department. 
10.4  Assessment for Architectural Design Studio Co urses  
The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Studio Courses like Fundamentals of Design 
and Architectural Design comprises of three assessm ents carried out for 100 marks for 
the performance of the candidate in the studio proj ects throughout the semester. The 
total marks obtained in the continuous assessments put together shall be reduced to 60 
marks and rounded to the nearest integer. A minimum of 2 studio projects shall be done 
in a semester of which one shall be a time project for a period of not less than 2 working 
days. The evaluation weightage for these studio pro jects shall be discussed and 
recommended by the Department Committee constituted  by the Head of the 
Department.  
10.5     Assessment for Practical Training 
10.5.1 Every student shall undergo Practical Training in the IX Semester. The student shall 
undergo Practical Training in architectural firms/o ffices in India only under architects 
registered with the Council of Architecture, India with a minimum of 5 years professional 
standing with the approval of the Head of the Department.  
10.5.2  Practical Training shall be undertaken for one se mester as specified by the Council of 
Architecture. 
10.5.3 If the student wishes to undergo training outside India, it should be under an architect 
registered with the Governing body for Architects o f that Country with a minimum of 5 
16
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
years professional standing. This should be duly ap proved by the Department 
Committee two weeks prior to the training period. 
10.5.4 Ideally every student is required to undertake the entire duration of Practical Training in 
the IX semester in a single architectural firm/offi ce. However, under unforeseen 
circumstances, if the student wishes to change his/  her place of Practical Training, 
student shall be allowed to do so only once with the prior approval of the coordinator.  
10.5.5 The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Studio Co urses like Practical Training shall 
be carried out for 50 marks for the entire period o f the practical training during the IX 
semester. The evaluations shall be in the form of M onthly Progress report, Work diary, 
Portfolio, Site visits etc which will be evaluated by the Principal Architect / his or her 
Designee Architect. The evaluation weightage for th ese studio subjects shall be 
discussed and recommended by the Department Committ ee constituted by the Head of 
the Department.  
10.5.6 For the Practical Training, Terminal Examination s hall be conducted in the form of a 
viva-voce examination at the end of the IX  semester by an internal and external 
examiners appointed by the Controller of Examinatio n from a panel recommended by 
the Head of the Department. 
10.6  Assessment for Architectural Thesis  
Every candidate shall submit a synopsis at the end of IX Semester to be approved by 
the Department Committee constituted by the Head of  the Department. The thesis 
review committee constituted by the Head of the Dep artment shall comprise of the 
Coordinator of the Thesis, the Supervisor and Two E xternal members. The Thesis shall 
be evaluated for 100 marks by the Thesis review com mittee through continuous 
assessment with a minimum of 5 reviews (including one topic selection review which will 
not be evaluated) throughout the semester. The tota l marks obtained in the five 
assessments put together shall be reduced to 60 mar ks and rounded to the nearest 
integer. The External Review members will be appoin ted by the Controller of 
Examination from a panel recommended by the Head of  the Department. Terminal 
Examination shall be conducted in the form of a viv a-voce examination at the end of the 
X semester by the External Examiners appointed by t he Controller of Examination from 
a panel recommended by the Head of the Department. 
10.7 Revaluation is not permitted for Studio Courses; Theory cum Studio Courses, Skill based 
Theory cum Studio Courses and Industry Supported Courses.  
17
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
 11.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE  
11.1 Theory Courses  
 For theory courses a candidate shall be declared t o have passed the examination, if he 
/ she secures minimum of 25 marks out of 50 in the Terminal Examination with a 
minimum aggregate of 50 marks out of 100 in continu ous assessment and Terminal 
Examination put together.  
11.2 Theory cum Studio Courses  
 For Theory cum Studio courses, a candidate shall b e declared to have passed the 
examination, if he / she secures minimum of 25 mark s out of 50 in the Terminal 
Examination with a minimum aggregate of 50 marks ou t of 100 in Continuous 
Assessment and Terminal Examination put together. 
11.3 Theory cum Studio Courses (Skill Based)  
11.3.1    The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Theory  cum Studio courses (Skill Based) 
will be carried out for 50 marks for the performanc e of the candidate throughout the 
semester. The total marks obtained in the assessments put together shall be reduced to 
50 marks and rounded to the nearest integer. The ev aluation weightage for the 
Continuous Assessment of Theory cum Studio courses (Skill Based) shall be discussed 
and recommended by the Department Committee constit uted by the Head of the 
Department. Terminal Examination shall be conducted  in the form of a viva-voce 
examination at the end of the semester by an intern al and external examiner appointed 
by the Controller of Examination from a panel recom mended by the Head of the 
Department for 100 Marks which shall be reduced to 50 Marks. A candidate shall be 
declared to have passed the examination if he / she  secure an aggregate of 50 marks 
out of 100 obtained in the Continuous Assessment an d Terminal Examination put 
together. 
11.3.2 If a student fails to secure a pass in a theory cu m studio course (Skill Based) the 
student shall do reappearance registration for the Terminal Examination. 
11.4 Studio Courses  
11.4.1 For Fundamentals of Design and Architectural Desig n studio courses, a candidate 
shall be declared to have passed the examination if he / she secure an aggregate of 
50 marks out of 100 obtained in the Continuous Asse ssment and Terminal 
18
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
Examination put together. The Terminal Examination will be conducted as Viva-Voce 
for the portfolio submitted by the candidate.   
11.4.2 For Practical Training, a candidate shall be decla red to have passed if he / she 
secure a minimum of 50 marks out of 100 in the Cont inuous Assessment and the 
Terminal Examination put together. The Terminal Exa mination will be conducted as 
Viva-Voce for the portfolio submitted by the candidate.   
11.4.3 For Architectural Thesis, a candidate shall be dec lared to have passed if he / she 
secure an aggregate of 50 marks of the total of 100  marks in the Continuous 
Assessment and the Terminal Viva Voce examination put together. 
11.4.4  If a student fails to secure a pass in examinatio ns of studio courses comprising of 
Fundamentals of Design and Architectural Design/ Ar chitectural Thesis, the student 
shall resubmit an improved portfolio/works/sheets f or the subsequent viva voce 
examination conducted in the following semester. The continuous assessment marks 
shall be valid for the subsequent attempt only. 
11.4.5  In case, a student fails to secure a pass in the s ubsequent attempt also, in the studio 
courses comprising of Fundamentals of design and Ar chitectural Design/ 
Architectural Thesis, the student shall repeat when the course is offered next, attend 
classes, secure continuous assessment marks and submit the portfolio/works/sheets 
as in the case of a regular student as per vide clause 6 and 9. 
11.4.6      If a student fails to secure a pass in Practi cal Training, the student shall repeat the 
course again, when offered next.  
11.5 Award of Grades  
Table 4: Grade Classification 
Range of Total Marks (TM) 
(Continuous assessment +Terminal Examination) 
Letter Grade Grade Point 
(GP) 
10090  TM  S 10 
9080  TM  A 9 
8070  TM  B 8 
7060  TM  C 7 
6050  TM  D 6 
500  TM  U 0 
Non-completion of a semester(Repeat course) I 0 
Withdrawal from terminal examination W 0 
Absent AA 0 
19
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 



 N
i
i
N
i
ii
C
GPC
GPA
1
1
 
N is the number of courses registered in a particular  semester,  iGP  is the grade point 
obtained in 
thi course and iC is the number of credits assigned to 
thi course. Cumulative 
GPA (CGPA) will be calculated when the student is d eclared to be eligible for the award 
of the degree. CGPA calculation is based on all the courses considered (vide clause 5.2) 
for the award of the degree.   
12.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVING TO A HIGHER SEMESTER  
12.1 A student of the B.Arch. shall move to the higher s emester if student satisfies semester 
completion requirements (vide clause – 6) and the following conditions. 
(i) To enroll in III semester 21AR360 - Personal Space  Design, a pass is required in 
21AR160 - Fundamentals of Design (Sem I) 
(ii)  To enroll in IV semester 21AR450 - Social Space D esign, a pass is required in 
21AR260 - Micro Personal Space Design (Sem II) 
(iii)  To enroll in V semester 21AR530 - Urban Architectural Design, a pass is required in 
21AR360 - Personal Space Design (Sem III) 
(iv)  To enroll in VI semester 21AR630 - Campus Design, a pass is required in 21AR450 
- Social Space Design (Sem IV) 
(v) To enroll in VII semester 21AR730 - Public Space D esign, a pass is required in 
21AR530 - Urban Architectural Design (Sem V)  
(vi) To enroll in VIII semester 21AR830 - Architectural  Design and Research, a pass is 
required in 21AR630 - Campus Design (Sem VI) 
(vii) To enroll in IX semester 21AR910 – Practical Train ing, a pass is required in 
21AR730 - Public Space Design (Sem VII)  
(viii) To enroll in X semester 21ART10 – Architectural Th esis, a pass is required in 
21AR830 - Architectural Design and Research (Sem VIII) 
 
 
 
 
 
20
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
13.0 ISSUE OF GRADE CARD 
13.1   The consolidated grade card will be issued, through the head of the department, when the 
student is declared to be eligible for the degree. The consolidated grade card will contain 
the following information: 
(i) The courses for which credits are earned  
(ii) Grade obtained in each course 
(iii) Cumulative grade point average earned during the course 
(iv) Month and year of successful appearance  
(v) Course code and title 
13.2 Grade Card will be issued at the end of each semes ter examinations. The Grade Card 
will contain the following information: 
(i) The credits registered and earned in the particula r semester  
(ii) Grade obtained in each course 
(iii) Grade point average earned in the particular semester 
(iv) Cumulative grade point average earned until the semester. 
(v) Course code and title  
14.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE  
 A student shall be declared to be eligible for the  award of the B.Arch. Degree provided   
the student has satisfied the following 
a. A student seeking B.Arch degree shall be require d to undergo the prescribed courses of 
study and evaluation in the college for the specifi ed duration and to pass all the 
examinations prescribed therefore. 
b. He/ she should register for all the courses pres cribed in the curriculum of the respective 
degree programme fulfill the requirement of credits in each category of credit distribution, 
pass in all mandatory courses in the curriculum and  earn the minimum number of 260 
credits.  
c. The maximum time limit for the completion of the  B.Arch Degree programme is 8 (Eight) 
years from the date of admission to the first semes ter of the programme. However, in 
special circumstances a candidate may be granted an  extra 1 year by the University or 
Institution to complete the course. This shall be g iven only once to the candidate and 
treated as zero year. 
d. No disciplinary action pending against the stude nt 
 
21
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
15.0  CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED  
15.1. First class with Distinction  
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vi de clause 14.0) having passed the 
examination in all registered courses in his / her first appearance (including industry 
supported courses), within SIX years including the authorized Break of Study of One 
Year, and securing a CGPA of not less than 8.50 sha ll be declared to have passed in 
First class with distinction and should not have be en prevented from writing Terminal 
Examination due to lack of attendance in any of the  courses. The authorized break of 
study (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal from the ex amination (vide clause 17.0) will not 
be counted as an attempt. 
15.2. First Class 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vi de clause 14.0) having passed the 
examination in all the courses within SIX years inc luding the authorized Break of Study 
of One Year, and securing a CGPA of not less than 7 .00 shall be declared to have 
passed in First class. The authorized break of stud y (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal 
from the examination (vide clause 17.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
15.3. Second Class 
All other students (not covered in 15.1 and 15.2) w ho qualify for the award of degree 
having passed the examination in all the courses an d fulfilling the requirements given in 
clause 14.0 above shall be declared to have passed in Second Class. 
15.4 A student who is absent for Terminal Examination in  a course /  project  work after 
having registered for the same shall be considered to have appeared in that (except 
approved withdrawal from Terminal Examination) for the purpose of classification. 
16.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME  
16.1.   A student is not normally permitted to break th e study temporarily. However, if a student 
intends to temporarily discontinue the programme in  the middle for valid reasons (such 
as accident or hospitalization due to prolonged ill  health) and to rejoin the programme, 
he/she shall apply in advance to The Principal, thr ough the Head of the Department 
stating the reasons, in any case, not later than th e last lecture day, provided he/she 
fulfills the requirement in Clause 6.0. 
22
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
16.2   The student permitted to rejoin the programme af ter the break shall be governed by the 
rules and regulations in force at the time of rejoining. 
16.3    The duration specified for passing all the cour ses for the purpose of classification vide 
Clause 15.1 and 15.2 shall be increased by the period of such break of study permitted. 
16.4    The total period for completion of the programme re ckoned from the commencement of 
the  first semester to which the student was admitt ed shall  not exceed the maximum 
period specified in clause 14.0 irrespective of the   period of break of study in order that 
he/she may be eligible for the award of the  degree. 
16.5    If any student is detained for want of requisit e attendance, progress and good 
conduct, the period spent in that semester shall not be considered as permitted ‘Break 
of Study’. 
17.0 PROVISION FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS  
17.1  A student will be permitted to withdraw in any on e of the semesters except first semester 
during the entire duration of the degree programme for valid and genuine reasons by 
making an application in the office of the Controll er of Examinations through the 
respective Head of the Department for withdrawal at least one day in advance of the last 
theory examination in that semester. When he / she appear subsequently, he / she have 
to appear for all the courses of that semester on r egistration and payment of fees. 
Subsequent appearance will not be counted as separate attempt. 
17.2 Those students who withdraw are eligible for the aw ard of First Class and First Class 
with Distinction as per the requirement in this reg ard.  However he / she will not be 
considered for ranking. 
17.3   Withdrawal is permitted ONLY ONCE during the ent ire duration of the degree 
programme. 
17.4.  Withdrawal is not permitted to the student who ha s not satisfied the conditions 
prescribed in clause 6.0 as requirements for appearing in the Terminal Examination.  
17.5.  Withdrawal is permitted for the Terminal Examina tions in the final semester, only if the 
period of study the student concerned does not exceed 6 years as per clause 15.1. 
 
 
23
                                                       B.Arch Degree Programme - 2021 – 22 
 
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 19.06.2021                     Approved in 61st Academic Council Meeting on 03.07.2021   
    
 
 
18.0 DISCIPLINE  
18.1  Every student is required to observe discipline a nd decorous behavior both inside and 
outside the college and not to indulge in any activ ity, which will tend to bring down the 
prestige of the college. The Principal shall consti tute a disciplinary committee to enquire 
into acts of indiscipline and notify the institutio n about the disciplinary action 
recommended for approval. In case of any serious di sciplinary action which leads to 
suspension or dismissal, then a special committee s hall be constituted by the Head of 
the Institution for taking the final decision.  
18.2    If a student indulges in malpractice in any tes t/Examinations, the student shall be liable 
for punitive action as prescribed by the College from time to time.  
19.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM  
The standing committee/Academic Council of the Coll ege reserves the right to revise or 
change or amend the regulations, the scheme of exam inations, the curriculum and the 
syllabi from time to time if found necessary. 
20.0 SPECIAL CASES  
In the event of any clarification in the interpreta tion of the above rules and regulations, 
they shall be referred to the Standing Committee.  The Standing Committee will offer 
suitable interpretations/ clarifications /amendment s required for special case on such 
references and get them ratified in the next meetin g of the Academic Council. The 
decision of the Academic Council is final. 
 
24