ANNEXURE - I 
 
A few excerpts from R-2021 of Non-Autonomous colleges Affiliated to Anna University is 
given below. The same shall be adopted for the UG/PG students following from academic 
year 2021-2022 onwards. 
 
PROCEDURE FOR AWARDING MARKS FOR INTERNAL ASSESSMENT 
For all theory, laboratory courses, theory courses with laboratory component and project work 
the continuous assessment shall be awarded as per the procedure given below: 
 
THEORY COURSES  
Two assessments each carrying 100 marks shall be co nducted during the semester by the 
Department / College concerned. The total marks obtained in all assessments put together out 
of 200, shall be proportionately reduced for 40 marks and rounded to the nearest integer (This 
also implies equal weightage to the two assessments). 
 
Assessment I (100 Marks)  Assessment II (100 Marks)  
Total 
Internal 
Assessment 
Individual 
Assignment / 
Case Study / 
Seminar / Mini 
Project 
Written 
Test 
 
Individual 
Assignment /  
Case Study / 
Seminar / Mini 
Project 
Written 
Test 
 
40 60 40 60 200* 
 
*The weighted average shall be converted into 40 marks for internal Assessment. 
 
Two internal assessments will be conducted as a part of continuous assessment. Each internal 
assessment is to be conducted for 100 marks and wil l have to be distributed in two parts viz., 
Individual Assignment/Case study/Seminar/Mini project and  Test with each having a weightage 
of 40% and 60% respectively. The tests shall be in written mode. The total internal assessment 
marks of 200 shall be converted into a maximum of 40 marks and rounded to the nearest integer. 
 
LABORATORY COURSES  
The maximum marks for Internal Assessment shall be 60 marks in case of practical courses. 
Every practical exercise / experiment shall be eval uated based on conduct of experiment / 
exercise and records to be maintained.   There shal l be at least one test. The criteria for 
arriving at the Internal Assessment marks of 60 is as follows: 75 marks shall be awarded for 
successful completion of all the prescribed experiments done in the Laboratory and 25 marks for 
the test. The total mark shall be converted into a maximum of 60 marks and rounded to the 
nearest integer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Internal assessment marks shall be converted into 60 marks 
 
 
  
Internal Assessment  
(100 Marks)* 
Evaluation of Laboratory  Observation, 
Record 
Test 
 
75 25 
Approved in 63rd Academic Council Meeting on 25-06-2022 1
THEORY COURSES WITH LABORATORY COMPONENT 
 
If there is a theory course with laboratory compone nt, there shall be two assessments: the first 
assessment (maximum mark is 100) will be similar to  assessment of theory course and the 
second assessment (maximum mark is 100) will be similar to assessment of laboratory course 
respectively.  The weightage of first assessment shall be 40 % and the second assessment be 
60 %.  
The weighted average of these two assessments shall  be converted into 50 marks and 
rounded to the nearest integer. 
 
Assessment I (40% weightage)  
(Theory Component) 
Assessment II (60% weightage)  
(Laboratory Component) Total 
Internal 
Assessment 
Individual Assignment / 
Case Study / 
Seminar / Mini Project 
Written 
Test 
 
Evaluation of Laboratory  
Observation, Record 
Test 
 
40 60 75 25 200* 
 
*The weighted average shall be converted into 50 marks for internal Assessment.  
 
PASSING REQUIREMENTS  
A student who secures not less than 50% of total ma rks prescribed for the course [Internal 
Assessment + End semester University Examinations] with a minimum of 45% of the marks 
prescribed for the  end-semester University Examination, shall be declared to have passed the 
course and acquired the relevant number of credits.  This is applicable for both theory and 
laboratory courses (including project work). 
 
If a student fails to secure a pass in a theory course /  laboratory course (except electives), the 
student shall register and appear only for the end semester examination in the subsequent 
semester. In such case, the internal assessment mar ks obtained by the student in the first 
appearance shall be retained and considered valid f or all subsequent attempts till the student 
secures a pass. However, from the third attempt onwards if a student fails to obtain pass marks 
(IA + End Semester Examination) as per clause 14.1, then the student shall be declared to have 
passed the examination if he/she secures a minimum of 50% marks prescribed for the University 
end semester examinations alone. 
 
AWARD OF LETTER GRADES 
The award of letter grades will be decided using relative grading principle. The performance of a 
student will be reported using letter grades, each carrying certain points   as detailed below: 
 
Lett er  Gra de Gra de Point s*  
O   (Outstanding) 10  
A + (Excellent) 9 
A    (Very Good) 8 
B + (Good) 7 
B    (Average) 6 
C    (Satisfactory) 5 
RA   (Re-appearance) 0 
SA (Shortage of Attendance) 0 
W   (Withdrawal) 0 
 
A student is deemed to have passed and acquired the  corresponding credits in a particular 
course if he/she obtains any one of the following grades: “O”, “A+”, “A”, “B+”,“B”, “C”. Approved in 63rd Academic Council Meeting on 25-06-2022 2
‘SA’ denotes shortage of attendance (as per clause 7.3) and hence prevented from writing the 
end semester examinations.  ‘SA’ will appear only in the result sheet.  
 
“RA” denotes that the student has failed to pass in that course. “W” denotes withdrawal from 
the exam for the particular course.  The grades RA and W will figure both in the Grade Sheet 
as well as in the Result Sheet. In both cases, the student has to appear for the End Semester 
Examinations as per the Regulations. 
 
If the grade RA is given to Theory Courses / Laboratory Courses  it is not required to 
satisfy the  attendance requirements (vide clause 7), but has to appear for the end semester 
examination and fulfil the norms specified in clause 14 to earn a pass in the respective courses. 
 
If the grade RA is given to EEC course (except Project Work), which are evaluated only 
through internal assessment, the student shall register for the course again in the 
subsequent semester, fulfil the norms as specified in clause 14 to earn pass in the course. 
However, attendance requirement need not be satisfied. 
 
CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED  
 
FIRST CLASS WITH DISTINCTION 
 
A  student  who  satisfies  the  following  conditi ons  shall  be  declared  to  have  passed  the 
examination in First class with Distinction:  
 Should have passed  the  examination  in  all  the   courses of all the eight semesters (10 
Semesters in case of Mechanical (Sandwich) and 6 semesters in the case of Lateral Entry) 
in the student’s First Appearance within five years (Six years in the case of Mechanical 
(Sandwich) and Four years in the case of Lateral Entry). Withdrawal from examination (vide 
Clause 17) will not be considered as an appearance. 
 Should have secured a CGPA of not less than 8.50 . 
 One year authorized break of study (if availed of)  is included in the five years (Six 
years in the case of Mechanical (Sandwich) and four years in the case of lateral entry) for 
award of First class with Distinction. 
 Should NOT have been prevented from writing end se mester examination due to lack of 
attendance in any semester. 
 
FIRST CLASS: 
A  student  who  satisfies  the  following  conditi ons  shall  be  declared  to have   passed 
the examination in First class: 
 Should  have  passed  the  examination  in  all  t he  courses  of  all  eight  semesters (10 
Semesters in case of Mechanical (Sandwich) and 6 se mesters in the case of Lateral 
Entry) within five years . (Six years in case of Mechanical (Sandwich) and Four years in the 
case of Lateral Entry). 
 One year authorized break of study (if availed of)  or prevention from writing the End 
Semester examination due to lack of  attendance (if   applicable) is included in the 
duration of five years (Six years in case of Mechanical (Sandwich) and four years in the case of 
lateral entry) for award of First class. 
 Should have secured a CGPA of not less than 6.50. 
 
SECOND CLASS:  
All other students (not covered in clauses 16.2.1 and 16.2.2) who qualify for the award of the 
degree (vide Clause 16.1) shall be declared to have passed the examination in Second Class . 
 
The corresponding specific changes are made to B.Arch./M.Arch./M.Plan./MBA/M.Sc.(5years). 
 
Approved in 63rd Academic Council Meeting on 25-06-2022 3