M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
1 
 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI – 625 015 
(A Govt. Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University) 
                                                                                                                             
RULES  AND  REGULATIONS 
 
 CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM (CBCS) 
 
Master of Computer Applications (MCA) Degree Programme (2 Years) 
 
These rules and regulations are applicable to the candidates admitted from the 
academic year 2020-2021 onwards. 
  
1. 0 PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE 
 
 In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
a. “ Programme” means Post Graduate Degree Programme, that is, M.C.A.  
 
b. “ Course” means a theory or practical subject that is normally studied in a 
semester, like Data Structures, Software Engineering, etc. 
 
c. ‘ University’ means Anna University, Chennai 
 
2.0 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION: 
 The   candidates   seeking   admission to the programme shall require satisfying the 
eligibility norms prescribed by the Anna University and Director of Technical 
Education, Chennai, from time to time. 
 
3.0 BRANCHES OF STUDY: 
   
  No Branch for M.C.A Programme. 
 
4.0 STRUCTURE OF PROGRAMMES 
 
 4.1  Categorization of Courses  
Each programme shall have a curriculum comprising of Theory, Theory cum Practical 
and Practical courses with well defined Program Outcomes and Programme 
Educational Objectives (PEO) as per Outcome Based Education (OBE). The content 
of each course is designed based on the Course Outcomes (CO).  The courses shall 
cover:  
A. Foundation Courses 
B. Professional Core Courses relevant to the chosen programme of study. 
C. Professional Elective Courses relevant to the chosen programme of study. 
D. Employability Enhancement Courses 
In addition, Value Added Courses for 2 to 4 credits may also be offered. However, 
these courses will not be included for CGPA calculation as well as for Minimum 
Credits to be earned for the award of the Degree. 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
2 
 
The distribution of credits for each category is given Table 1. 
Table1: Credit Distribution 
S.No Category Credits 
A. Foundation Courses 12-16 
   B. Professional Core Courses 55-60 
C. Elective Courses 6 – 9 
D. Employability Enhancement Courses  14-16 
 Minimum Credits to be earned for the award of the degree   87 
 
4.2 In assigning the credits for the courses, 1 hour lecture/week, 1 hour tutorial/week,             
2 hours practical/week, 2 hours Dissertation work or seminar/week is equivalent to             
1 credit. 
4.3 The curriculum of each semester shall normally be a blend of Theory courses,    
Theory-Cum-Practical and practical courses.  
 
4.4       Project Work /Thesis/ Dissertation 
4.4.1. Project Work / Thesis / Dissertation shall be carried out in an Industrial/Research 
Organization  under the supervision of a faculty in the concerned Department. 
Project work shall be jointly supervised by a supervisor of the department and an 
Engineer / Scientist from the Organization and the student shall be instructed to 
meet the supervisor periodically in any working day of every month and to attend 
the review committee meetings for evaluating the progress. These candidates will 
produce a certificate of attendance from the Industry / Research Organization 
where the project is done. They will also report the progress to the local Guide and 
the Head of the Department every month. 
 
4.4.2. A candidate may, however, in certain cases, be permitted to work on the project in the 
concerned Department, on the recommendations of Head of the Department. 
 
4.4.3    The report of Project work / Thesis / Dissertation and Drawings prepared according 
to approved guidelines and duly signed by the supervisor(s) and the Head of the 
Department shall be submitted to the Controller of Examination (CoE). 
 
4.4.4 The report of Project work / Thesis / Dissertation shall be submitted on or  before the 
last day mentioned in the Academic Calendar of the semester. 
 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
3 
 
4.4.5  No further extension of time will be permitted. Due to unavoidable circumstances if 
any candidate is not able to submit the project report on or before the last date 
prescribed, he / she shall is deemed to have failed in the Project and shall re-enroll 
the same in the subsequent semester. They shall be granted one additional 
semester for submission of project report, by the Principal based on the 
recommendations of the Guide and the Head of the Department concerned and on 
the payment of tuition fee and other special fees prescribed by the college office. 
 
4.4.6  If the project work carried out by the candidate doing MCA is research based, then in 
that case, the candidate shall, based on his/her research/ Project Work / Thesis / 
Dissertation, send a paper for publication in a refereed journal or a conference in 
which full papers are published after usual review. An acknowledgement for having 
communicated to the journal or conference shall be attached to the report of the 
Project Work. The dissertation topic should be selected / chosen to ensure the 
satisfaction of the urgent need to establish a direct link between education, national 
development and productivity and thus reduce the gap between the world of work 
and the world of study. The dissertation should have relevance to social needs of 
society, value addition to existing facilities in the institute, to industry need, 
Problems of national importance, research and development in various domains. 
 
4.5 Industrial Training  
 Every student is expected to undergo In-plant training in any industry/                 
organization during the programme of studies. Every 2 weeks of internship/training at 
industry is equivalent to 1 credit. The credit will be awarded to the student after the 
submission of internship/training report to the Head of the Department. The report will 
be evaluated by a team of faculty members nominated by the Head of the 
Department. Based on the recommendation by the team, the student will be awarded 
credits and grade and the results will be the Controller of Examinations after the 
approval by the Head of the Department. The student is allowed to undergo a 
maximum of 6 weeks industrial training during the entire duration of study. 
 
4.6      Industry supported Courses:  
4.6.1 Students can opt for one-credit courses and two credit courses, offered by experts 
from industry/ research organizations and approved by academic council.   Students 
can register such courses as and when these courses are conducted by the 
department. A student is also permitted to register for these courses of other 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
4 
 
departments, provided the student has fulfilled the necessary pre-requisites of the 
course being offered and subject to the approval of both the heads of departments. 
There is no limit to the number of one-credit or two credit courses a student can 
register during the programme of study. However, a student can register for only one 
course in a semester. These courses are evaluated by the respective course 
coordinator of the programme. The maximum number of credits that can be earned 
from industry supported courses is limited to 3.  
4.6.2   If a student who registers for industry supported one-credit or two credit courses 
does not successfully complete the course, the registration of that course will be 
considered as cancelled. Further, it will not be treated as arrear and no 
supplementary examination will be conducted; alternatively, if he/she wishes, he/she 
can re-register for the same course in the ensuing semesters and successfully 
complete it as and when it is offered subsequently.  
 
4.7 Guided Study Course 
 A student who has CGPA greater than 8.5 may be permitted to credit utmost ONE 
guided study course from second semester under Professional  elective courses. 
One faculty member approved by the Head of the Department shall be responsible 
for the periodic monitoring and evaluation of the course. The student need not attend 
the classes for the guided courses. However, the student has to appear for 
continuous assessment tests and submit assignments to the respective faculty-in-
charge assigned by the Head of the Department. 
 
4.8    Value Added Courses 
Students shall  earn 2 to 4 credits in Value Added Courses. The credits earned 
through the Value Added Courses shall be over and above the minimum credit 
requirement prescribed in the curriculum for the award of the degree and grades will 
be not considered for CGPA calculation.  
 
4.9    Online Courses 
 Students may be permitted to register for online courses (which are provided with 
certificates after evaluation of the performance), during first to three semester of 
his/her study. On successful completion of the course, he/she has to submit the copy 
of the certificate to the Head of the Department for exemption from registering for an 
elective course.  Based on the recommendation by the team of faculty members 
nominated by the Head of the Department, the student will be awarded grade and 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
5 
 
credits, maximum 3, in Professional Elective category. The recommendation will be 
sent to The Controller of Examinations after the approval by the Head of the 
Department. 
 
4.10 Students shall register for the Dissertation work after the third semester of his/her 
studies only.  
 
4.11 The medium of instruction, examinations and Dissertation report shall be in English. 
 
 5.0  DURATION OF THE PROGRAMMES   
 
  5.1 The minimum and maximum period for completion of the Programmes are 4 and 8 
semesters respectively. The duration of the programmes shall extend over a period 
of four consecutive semesters for the candidates admitted in M.C.A. programme in 
the first semester. 
 
   5.2 Each semester normally consists of 90 working days (including examination days), 
including Test and Examination Days. In any contingent situation, the number of 
working days per semester shall not be less than 65 days.  The Principal is given the 
discretionary powers to decide the number of working days. In such contingencies, 
the Principal shall ensure that every faculty member teaches the full content of the 
specified syllabus for the course being taught. 
 
     5.3 The total duration for completion of the programme reckoned from the 
commencement of the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not 
exceed the maximum duration specified in Clause 5.1 irrespective of the period of 
Break of Study or prevention in order that the student may be eligible for the award of 
the degree.  
 
 5.4 For the purpose of regulations, the academic year will be divided into two Semesters, 
the odd semester normally spanning from June to November and the even semester 
from December to May. 
 
 
 
 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
6 
 
6.0 COURSE REGISTRATION  
 
6.1   Each student, on admission shall be assigned to a Faculty Mentor (vide clause 8) 
who shall advice and counsel the student about the details of the academic 
programme and the choice of courses considering the student’s academic 
background and career objectives 
6.2     A student has to earn the minimum number of total credits as specified in the 
curriculum prescribed in the chosen programme of study in order to be eligible to 
obtain the degree. However, a student can earn more than the number of credits, if 
he/she wishes. In such case, the highest grades in the relevant category would be 
considered for CGPA calculation.   
6.3    A student has the option of registering for additional courses in the ‘Scheduling of 
Courses’ of the programme, if it is offered by the department. Total number of credits 
of such courses cannot exceed 8. A student also has the option of dropping existing 
courses in the ‘Scheduling of Courses’ of the programme with prior permission from 
the Head of the Department. However, the maximum number of credits the student 
can register in a particular semester cannot exceed 26, excluding the courses for 
which the student has done reappearance registration. The credits for industry 
supported courses are also included in calculating the number of credits per 
semester. 
 
6.4    The registration for the courses from II semester will commence three days after the 
declaration of the examination results of preceding semester. The student shall 
register for the courses with the guidance of the student’s Faculty Mentor. If the 
student wishes, the student may drop courses (vide clause 6.3) within five working 
days after the commencement of the concerned semester and complete the 
registration process.  
 
6.5  No course shall be offered by a Department unless a minimum of 10 students 
register for that course. 
 
6.6    After registering for a course, a student shall attend the classes, satisfy the 
attendance Requirements (vide clause 7), earn Continuous Assessment marks and 
appear for the End Semester Examinations, except for the arrear courses.   
 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
7 
 
6.7.  Reappearance Registration  
 
6.7.1 If a student fails in a theory or a theory cum practical course, the student shall do 
reappearance registration for that course in the subsequent semester by retaining the 
Continuous Assessment Marks already earned. 
  
6.7.2 If a student fails in a  theory or theory cum practical course which  is an elective then 
the student may register for the same or any other elective in the subsequent 
semesters if it is offered by the department (Vide Clause 6.7.1 and 6.7.2). 
6.7.3  The student who does not obtain bonafide certificate in any practical course/ 
Dissertation shall register for the same in the subsequent semester, when offered 
next, and repeat the course. In this case, the student shall attend the classes, satisfy 
the attendance requirements (vide clause 7), earn Continuous Assessment marks 
and appear for the End Semester Examinations. However, if a student does not 
appear for terminal examination after completing all the requirements of the practical 
course and obtaining the bonafide certificate, the student shall do reappearance 
registration for that course in the subsequent semester and attend end semester 
examination without repeating the course. 
 
6.7.4    If a student is not eligible to appear for end semester examination of a course due to 
lack of attendance, the student has to register for that course again, when offered 
next, attend the classes and fulfill the attendance requirements as per clause 7. If the 
course, in which the student has lack of attendance, is an elective, the student may 
register for the same or any other elective in the subsequent semesters. 
 
6.7.5.  A student who has already appeared for a course in a semester and passed the 
examination is not entitled to reappear in the same course for improvement of 
Grade/Marks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
8 
 
7. 0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE END SEMESTER EXAMINATION  
7.1   A student who has fulfilled the following conditions shall be deemed to be eligible to 
appear for the end semester examination: 
 Students  
a. who have earned not less than 75% attendance in a course, taking into 
account the number of periods required for that course as specified in the 
curriculum  and 
b.    his/her progress has been satisfactory, and  
       c.   his/her conduct has been satisfactory 
are permitted to appear for End Semester Examination for that course. 
 
 Students who have earned attendance less than 65% will not be permitted to 
appear for End Semester Examination for that course. The student has to register 
and repeat that particular course in a subsequent semester when it is offered 
next.      
 However, exemption may be given for the students who earned attendance 
between 65% and less than 75% in a particular course from the prescribed 
attendance requirement based on medical leave (hospitalization / accident / 
specific illness) and On Duty leave for participation in the College / University / 
State / National / International level Sports events  with prior approval from the 
Principal / competent authority. Such student shall be permitted to apply for 
condonation to the Principal through the respective Head of the Department. 
After the approval from the principal, the student shall be permitted to appear for 
the end semester examination for that course by paying the prescribed fee to the 
Controller of Examinations of the college. However, the students who have 
represented the college in Sports are exempted from the Condonation. 
 The student has paid the prescribed examination fees and registered for the  
examinations for all the courses of that semester within the due date specified by 
the Office of the Controller of Examinations. If any student fails to register and 
pay the examination fees within the due date, he /she shall not be permitted to 
attend the end semester examinations. However, he/she will be permitted to 
continue their studies in the next higher semester, provided that the student 
should satisfy the requirements as stipulated in this clause of this regulations and 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
9 
 
to write the current semester courses and arrear courses if any, in the next 
supplementary examination as arrear courses on registration and payment of 
fees.  It will be counted as an attempt for the student. 
7.2     The students who are consistently good in academics ONLY be considered for the 
grant of ODL under co-curricular / extra-curricular activities by the competent 
authorities. The following activities shall be considered for the award of ODL: 
 Sports and Games: TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zonal, Inter University, State 
level, National level and Open Tournaments. 
 Cultural Programs at State, National and International level  
 Seminar / Symposia: Paper presentation / Quiz 
 Leadership course organized by other organizations & Alumni Association  
activities, Association Activities, Placement Activities 
 Training Programs/internship at Industries and Higher Learning Institutions 
 Personal damages incurred during the extra-curricular activities. 
 The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to the Principal through the Head of 
the Department of the student by the staff-in-charge of the respective activities 
before completion of every activity.  
 The ODL sanctioned letters shall be submitted to the Department office.  The 
faculty-in-charge of the department office will check the eligibility for the award of 
attendance at the end of semester and the same may be submitted to the Head 
of the Department for approval. 
7.3  Student who is permitted by the respective Head of the Department to carry out final 
semester Dissertation at industries/ organizations/higher learning institutions should 
submit the attendance certificate from the competent authority at every Dissertation 
review meetings and at the time of Dissertation report submission.  
 
8. 0 FACULTY MENTOR  
To help the students in planning their courses of study and for general advice on the 
academic programme, the Head of the Department will attach a certain number of 
students (Maximum 25) to a faculty member of the Department. He /she shall 
function as Faculty Mentor for these students throughout their period of study.  The 
faculty mentor shall  
 Advise the students in registering and reappearance registering of courses 
 Monitor their attendance, academic progress and discipline of the students 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
10 
 
 Counsel periodically or during the Faculty Mentor meeting scheduled in the class 
time table. 
 Inform the students about the various facilities and activities available to enhance 
the student’s curricular and co-curricular activities. 
 If necessary, the faculty mentor may also discuss with or inform the parents about 
the progress of the students through Head of the Department or in Parent –
Teacher meeting. 
 
9. 0 ACADEMIC COMMITTEES 
9.1   CLASS COMMITTEE  
The objective of the Class Committee is to improve the teaching-learning process. 
The functions of the class committee include: 
 Resolving difficulties experienced by students in the classroom and in the 
laboratories.                                                                                      
 Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules 
therein. 
 Discussing the progress of academic schedule and deviations if any. 
 Evaluating the performance of the students of the class after each test and 
finding the ways and means of improvement. 
 Class committee comprises all the faculty members who are handling courses in 
that particular semester and two student representatives from each course. A 
chairperson who is a faculty not handling course for that particular semester, 
nominated by the Head of the Department, shall coordinate the activities of this 
committee. 
 The class committee shall be constituted by the Head of the Department/Chief 
Tutor on the first week of commencement of the semester. 
 The class committee shall meet three times in a semester as specified in the 
academic calendar. 
 The Principal may participate in any class committee of the institution.  
 During these meetings, the representative of the class shall meaningfully interact 
and express the opinions and suggestions of the other students of the class to 
improve the effectiveness of the teaching-learning process. 
 The Chairperson is required to prepare the minutes of the meeting, signed by the 
members and submit the same to Head of the Department within five working 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
11 
 
days of the meeting. Head of the Department will in turn consolidate and forward 
the same to the Principal, within 10 working days of the meeting. 
 In each meeting, the action taken report of the previous meeting is to be 
presented by the Chairperson of the class committee. 
9.2  PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE 
 
The Performance Assessment Committee comprises the Course Coordinators / 
Course faculty members and Programme Coordinator, nominated by the Head of 
Department. This committee shall meet to assess the attainment of Course 
Outcomes and Program Outcomes, progress and status of the students of the 
semester concerned at the beginning and end of the semesters. The committee 
can invite Faculty mentors and students as invitees. 
 
10.0      SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION  
10.1   Performance in each course of study shall be evaluated for a maximum of 100 marks 
based on one of the following:  
 Continuous assessment throughout the semester and a terminal examination at 
the end of the semester. The continuous assessment will carry 50 marks while the 
terminal examination will carry 50 marks.  
 Continuous Assessment only. 
 
10.2   The terminal examination (Theory, Theory cum Practical & Practical) of 3 hours 
duration shall be conducted by the Controller of Examinations between October and 
December during the Odd Semesters and between March and May during the Even 
semesters.  For theory cum practical courses, terminal examination will be conducted 
as either theory or practical examination as specified in the syllabus. All Practical 
examinations shall be conducted and evaluated at the Department itself on behalf of 
the Controller of Examinations. 
 
10.3  For all the practical courses, students shall obtain bonafide certificate for the Record 
completed from the Faculty in-charges / Head of the Department on or before the day 
of the practical examination. Students who have not obtained the bonafide certificate 
are not permitted to appear for the terminal examination.    
   
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
12 
 
10.4  For the Project / Dissertation, students shall obtain bonafide certificate for the 
Dissertation work completed from the Project/Dissertation Guide and Head of the 
Department, at the end of the semester. Students who have not obtained the 
bonafide certificate are not permitted to appear for the terminal examination. 
Students who are not able to complete the Project/Dissertation work at the end of the 
semester can apply for extension to the Head of the Department, with the 
recommendation from the Project/Dissertation guide for the period of maximum 2 
months. If the Project/Dissertation report is not submitted even beyond the extended 
time, then the student(s) is not eligible to appear for Project/Dissertation Viva Voce 
examination. Further, if a student fails to secure a pass in Project/Dissertation work 
or not eligible to appear for Viva Voce Examination, the student shall register and 
repeat the Project/Dissertation work again.  
 
10.5  The terminal examination for Project/Dissertation work shall comprise of evaluation of 
the final report by an external examiner. The Project/Dissertation report shall carry 20 
marks while the viva-voce examination shall carry 80 marks. Further, the 
performance of the student would be evaluated in a viva-voce examination conducted 
by a committee consisting of an external examiner appointed by the Head of the 
Department/the Controller of Examination, Head of the Department or faculty 
nominated by Head of the Department as Internal Examiner and Guide. 
 
10.6  Students are prohibited from entering into the Examination Hall / Laboratories       
with any book or portion of book, manuscript, or paper of any description or       
Communicating with or copying from each other or communicating with anyone   
outside the Examination Hall / Laboratories.  Programmable calculator, mobile phone 
shall not be permitted inside the Examination hall / Laboratories. However, any 
required codebooks and data sheets / books as specified in the question paper will 
be supplied inside the Examination hall / laboratories by the office of the Controller of 
Examinations. The students are warned that any form of Malpractice will be dealt with 
severely. The punishment may be canceling all the examinations registered by the 
student in that semester and debarring permanently from all the examinations and 
disciplinary action will be taken by the college authorities after conducting enquiry.  
 
10.7  Identity card and Hall ticket of the college must be produced at the time of terminal 
examination. Any student fails to produce Identity card and Hall ticket shall be levied 
a spot fine by the Chief superintendent/ Examiners. 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
13 
 
 
10.8 A student can apply for revaluation of his/her semester examination answer paper in 
theory and theory cum practical courses (treated as theory examination in the end 
semester examination), within a week from the declaration of results, on payment of 
a prescribed fee through proper application to the Controller of Examinations. The 
Controller of Examination will arrange for the revaluation and the results will be 
published before the commencement of supplementary examinations. Revaluation is 
not permitted for practical courses, Dissertation work and industry supported courses. 
 
10.9 Students can go through the answer scripts for re-totaling before they apply for 
revaluation after the publication of the results. 
 
11.0 PROCEDURE FOR AWARDING MARKS FOR CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT  
11.1  Theory courses  
a. The award of marks for continuous assessment shall be normally based on three 
tests and three Assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini Dissertations. However, the 
assessment pattern for awarding the continuous assessment marks may be 
designed by the course designers based on the nature of the course and is to be 
approved by the Academic Council.  
b. The apportioning of marks shall be as follows: 
i) 30 marks for tests 
ii) 20 marks for Interim Assessment 
c. The first and second Continuous Assessment Tests will be normally conducted at 
the mid and end of the semester respectively. Subsequently, the third Continuous 
Assessment Test will be conducted as improvement/re-test covering full syllabus. 
Each test carries maximum of 50 marks. Among the three tests, the best two test 
marks will be considered for the award of maximum of 30 marks in test component 
of theory courses.  
d. Both test and interim assessment marks put together is 50 marks maximum and 
rounded to nearest integer if necessary. 
e. A student who is absent or has failed in the end semester examinations in 
any theory course is permitted to appear for supplementary examination by 
retaining the Continuous Assessment already earned, in the next two 
attempts of his/her choice. For further attempts, only the marks earned in 
the  supplementary examination will be considered for passing the course 
as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations (Minimum marks for Pass). 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
14 
 
 
11.2 Practical courses 
The continuous assessment mark will be awarded as follows: 
Description Marks 
Continuous Evaluation  of experiments in regular class works 30 
Preparation/viva voce  and record work 10 
Model Test/ Miniproject  10 
Total Marks 50 
 
If a student has not obtained bonafide certificate (vide clause 12.1) in a Practical 
course, the continuous assessment marks the student has earned is no longer valid. 
He/she shall register for the same in the subsequent semester, when offered next, 
and repeat the laboratory course again. 
 
11.3    Theory Cum Practical Courses:  
The first and second Continuous Assessment Tests will be normally conducted 
at the mid and end of the semester respectively. Subsequently, the third 
Continuous Assessment Test will be conducted as improvement/re-test 
covering full syllabus. Each test carries maximum of 50 marks. Among the 
three tests, the best two test marks will be considered for the award of 
maximum of 20 marks in theory component of theory cum practical course. A 
test will be conducted for 20 marks in practical component. Average mark 
awarded for viva – voce, conduct of experiments, observation & results, record 
work in regular class works shall be reduced to 10 marks. The sum of these 50 
Marks would be rounded to the nearest integer.  
 
A student who is absent or has failed in the end semester examinations in any 
Theory-cum-Practical course is permitted to appear for supplementary 
examination by retaining the Continuous Assessment already earned, in the 
next two attempts of his/her choice. For further attempts, only the marks 
earned in the  supplementary examination will be considered for passing the 
course as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations (Minimum marks for 
Pass). 
 
11.4 Project Dissertation  
The Head of the Department shall constitute a review committee comprises of Head 
of the Department or Faculty member nominated by Head of the Department and two 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
15 
 
faculty members. There shall be three assessments (each 50 Marks) during the 
semester by the review committee. The student shall make presentation on the 
progress made by him / her before the committee. The total marks obtained in the 
three reviews shall be averaged and rounded off to the nearest integer to 50 marks. 
11.4.1 A student when permitted to work on the Dissertation in an Industrial/Research 
Organization, on the recommendation of the Head of the Department, in such cases,  
the Dissertation work shall be jointly supervised by a faculty member (Guide) of the 
department and an Engineer / Scientist from the Organization and the student shall 
be instructed to report the progress in periodically and to attend the Dissertation 
review committee meetings for evaluating the progress. These students will produce 
a certificate of attendance from the Industry/ Research Organization where the 
Dissertation is done.  
11.4.2   If the Dissertation report is not submitted on or before the specified deadline, an 
extension of time up to a maximum limit of 30 days may be given for the submission 
of Dissertation work with due approval obtained from the Head of the Department.  
 
11.5 Every faculty member is required to maintain an Attendance and Continuous 
Assessment Record which consists of attendance marked for each lecture or 
practical or Dissertation work classes, the tests & assignment marks and record of 
class works (topics covered) separately for each course.   
 
11.6   If any student appears as a Private Candidate for Supplementary Examinations, the 
continuous Assessment Marks earned by the student will be nullified and only the 
marks earned in the supplementary examination will be considered for passing the 
course as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations (Minimum Marks for Pass) 
 
 
12 0  ELIGIBILITY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE 
12.1  A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks (both continuous            
assessment and terminal examination marks put together) prescribed for the            
courses with a minimum of 50% marks prescribed for the end semester            
Terminal examination in theory courses, theory cum practical courses, practical 
courses (except for the Practical Courses which are evaluated based on Continuous 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
16 
 
Assessment only) and Project /Dissertation work shall be declared to have passed 
the examination.  
 
12.2   If a student fails to secure a pass in a particular course, it is mandatory that he/she 
shall register for that course in the subsequent semester and attend the end 
semester examination.  He/she should continue to register and appear for the 
examination till he /she secures a pass.  
 
12.3   A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks in the courses which are 
evaluated using continuous assessment only (vide 10.2) in shall be declared to have 
passed the examination. If a student fails to secure a pass, it is mandatory that 
he/she shall register and repeat the course when it is offered next. He/she should 
continue to register and repeat the course till he/she secures a pass.   
12.4 Award of Grades  
Range of Total Marks (TM) 
(Continuous assessment +Terminal Examination) 
Letter Grade Grade Point 
(GP) 
10090  TM  S 10 
9080  TM  A 9 
8070  TM  B 8 
7060  TM  C 7 
6050  TM  D 6 
500  TM  U 0 
Non-completion of a semester(Repeat course) I 0 
Withdrawal from terminal examination W 0 
Absent AA 0 



 N
i
i
N
i
ii
C
GPC
GPA
1
1  
N is the number of all courses to be registered in the particular semester,  iGP  is the 
grade point obtained in thi course and iC is the number of credits assigned to thi
course. Cumulative GPA (CGPA) will be calculated when the student is declared to 
be eligible for the award of the degree. CGPA calculation is based on all the courses 
considered (vide clause 6.2) for the award of the degree.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
17 
 
13.0 ISSUE OF GRADE CARD 
 
13.1   The consolidated grade card will be issued, through the head of the department, when 
the student is declared to be eligible for the degree. The consolidated grade card will 
contain the following information: 
i. The courses for which credits are earned  
ii. Grade obtained in each course 
iii. Cumulative grade point average earned during the course 
iv. Month and year of successful appearance 
v. Course code and title 
13.2 Grade Card will be issued at the end of each semester examinations. The Grade 
Card will contain the following information: 
i. The credits registered and earned in the particular semester  
ii. Grade obtained in each course 
iii. Grade point average earned in the particular semester 
iv. Cumulative grade point average earned until the semester. 
v. Course code and title 
14.0  ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE 
 
A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of the degree if he/she has 
satisfied the following  
a. A student seeking M.C.A. degree shall be required to undergo the prescribed 
courses of study and evaluation in the college for the specified duration and to 
pass all the examinations prescribed therefore. 
b. He/ she should register for all the courses prescribed in the curriculum of the 
respective degree programme and earn the minimum number of credits prescribed 
in the Curriculum. 
c. The maximum time limit for the completion of the M.C.A Degree programme will 
be 4 (Four) years  from the date of admission to the first semester of the 
programme and   
d. No disciplinary action pending against the student. 
 
15.0  CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED 
15.1. First class with Distinction 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having passed the 
examination in all registered courses in his / her first appearance (including industry 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
18 
 
supported courses), within THREE years including the authorized Break of Study of 
One Year, and securing a CGPA of not less than 8.50 shall be declared to have 
passed in First class with distinction and should not have been prevented from writing 
end semester examination due to lack of attendance in any of the courses.  
The authorized break of study (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal from the 
examination (vide clause 17.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
15.2. First Class 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having passed the 
examination in all the courses within THREE years including the authorized Break of 
Study of One Year and securing a CGPA of not less than 7.00 shall be declared to 
have passed in First class. The authorized break of study (vide clause 16.0) and 
withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 17.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
15.3. Second Class 
All other students (not covered in 15.1 and 15.2) who qualify for the award of degree 
having passed the examination in all the courses and fulfilling the requirements given 
in clause 14.0 above shall be declared to have passed in Second Class. 
15.4 A student who is absent for end semester examination in a course /  Dissertation  
work after having registered for the same shall be considered to have appeared in 
that (except approved withdrawal from end semester examination) for the purpose of 
classification. 
 
16.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME 
16.1. A student is not normally permitted to break the study temporarily. However, if a 
student intends to temporarily discontinue the programme in the middle for valid 
reasons (such as accident or hospitalization due to prolonged ill health) and to rejoin 
the programme, he/she shall apply in advance to The Principal, through the Head of 
the Department stating the reasons, in any case, not later than the last lecture day, 
provided he/she fulfills the requirement in Clause 7.0.    
 
16.2   The student permitted to rejoin the programme after the break shall be governed by 
the rules and regulations in force at the time of rejoining. 
 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
19 
 
16.3    The duration specified for passing all the courses for the purpose of classification vide 
Clause 15.1 and 15.2 shall be increased by the period of such break of study 
permitted. 
 
16.4    The total period for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement 
of the  first semester to which the student was admitted shall not exceed the 
maximum period specified in clause 14.0 irrespective of the  period of break of study 
in order that he/she may be eligible for the award of the degree. 
 
16.5   If any student is detained for want of requisite attendance, progress and good 
conduct, the period spent in that semester shall not be considered as permitted 
‘Break of Study’. 
 
17. 0 PROVISION FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS 
 
17.1  A student will be permitted to withdraw in any one of the semesters except first 
semester during the entire duration of the degree programme for valid and genuine 
reasons by making an application in the office of the Controller of Examinations 
through the respective Head of the Department for withdrawal at least one day in 
advance of the last theory examination in that semester. When he /she appear 
subsequently, he / she have to appear for all the courses of that semester on 
registration and payment of fees. Subsequent appearance will not be counted as 
separate attempt. 
17.2 Those students who withdraw are eligible for the award of First Class and First Class 
with Distinction as per the requirement in this regard.  However he / she will not be 
considered for ranking. 
 
17.3 Withdrawal is permitted ONLY ONCE during the entire duration of the degree 
programme. 
 
17.4.  Withdrawal is not permitted to the student who has not satisfied the               
conditions prescribed in clause 7.0 as requirements for appearing in the end 
semester examination.  
 
M.C.A. (2 Years) Regulations CBCS 2020-2021 Onwards 
 
BOS meeting approved: 20-04-2020                            Approved in 60 th Academic Council meeting on 25-07-2020 
20 
 
17.5.  Withdrawal is permitted for the end semester examinations in the final semester only 
if the period of study the student concerned does not exceed 4 years as per clause 
16.1. 
 
18.0 DISCIPLINE 
 
18.1    Every student is required to observe discipline and decorous behavior both inside and 
outside the college and not to indulge in any activity, which will tend to bring down the 
prestige of the college. The Principal shall constitute a disciplinary committee to 
enquire into acts of indiscipline and notify the institution about the disciplinary action 
recommended for approval. In case of any serious disciplinary action which leads to 
suspension or dismissal, then a special committee shall be constituted by the Head 
of the Institution for taking the final decision.  
 
18.2    If a student indulges in malpractice in any if the Examinations, the student shall be 
liable for punitive action as prescribed by the College from time to time.  
 
19.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM 
The standing committee/Academic Council of the College reserves the right to revise 
or change or amend the regulations, the scheme of examinations, the curriculum and 
the syllabi from time to time if found necessary. 
 
20.0 SPECIAL CASES 
In the event of any clarification in the interpretation of the above rules and 
regulations, they shall be referred to the Standing Committee.  The Standing 
Committee will offer suitable interpretations/ clarifications /amendments required for 
special case on such references and get them ratified in the next meeting of the 
Academic Council. The decision of the Academic Council is final. 
 
***** 