Mechanical Engineering | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC Mechanical Engineering Breadcrumb Home > Departments > Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Vision and Mission Department of Mechanical Engineering in TCE is as old as the college itself, established in 1957 and granted autonomy in 1987. It offers Bachelor of Engineering (B.E) degree programme in Mechanical Engineering since inception. Earlier, it offered Post Graduate degree programmes in Industrial Engineering (1986 - 2019) and Manufacturing Engineering (1997 - 2021). The B.E degree programme is accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA) and the department is supported with Fund for Improvement of S & T Infrastructure in Universities and Higher Educational Institutions (FIST) Program - DST and AICTE - MODROBS, New Delhi. The department has the credit of offering collaborative curriculum with M/s T.V.S Motor company, Hosur for B.E Mechanical Engineering since 2010 and presently following CDIO framework in curriculum design. Department is an approved centre for Quality Improvement Program (QIP) under AICTE, New Delhi and Research Centre for Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) programme under Anna University, Chennai. The department has undertaken research projects funded by DRDO, DST - SERB, DST - FIST, UGC, AICTE - RPS, AICTE - MODROBS, ISHRAE and TEDA. The department is backed with highly qualified and professionally experienced faculty members and supporting staff. It has 18 academic laboratories and 8 research facilities with sophisticated equipment to carry out research in the area of Rapid Prototyping, Reverse Engineering, CAD, CAM, Robotics, Machine Vision, Nanotechnology, Refrigeration & Air Conditioning, Automotive Engineering, CFD, Composite Materials and Industrial Engineering. The department actively engages with higher learning institutions and industries through curriculum development, collaborative teaching & research and consultancy services. The department regularly organizes seminars, technical workshops and faculty development programmes in innovative areas. To enhance the employability skill of the students, department arranges guest lectures, industry supported courses and industrial internships. The students are encouraged to actively participate in various professional society activities like SAE, IEI, ISHRAE, EWB, IWS and various National and International technical contests like SAE-BAJA, GO-KART, SAE - Bicycle and Effi-Cycle. The department has established in collaboration with TVS Motors Ltd, an Industry Sponsored Research Centre (TCE–TSS - Centre for Automotive Research) equipped with modern machines and instruments/test rigs in 2019. The Centre would lead to improved research and consultancy by the faculty members and students of our college, which is built as per the Japanese TQM (Total Quality Management) with all the required facilities and is capable of undertaking novel research projects in various domains. In 2019, the department has implemented a unique Visionary Learning Community of India (VLCI) approach in collaboration with M/s. TAFE Pvt. Ltd., Madurai as an industrial demonstrator with an objective “To create next generation of Manufacturing Change Leaders by transforming Engineering graduates into role ready Engineers”. Programmes Offered B.E Mechanical Engineering The four-year Bachelor of Engineering (B.E) in Mechanical Engineering programme is a comprehensive undergraduate programme that equips students with a strong foundation in the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, materials science, and design. This programme blends theoretical knowledge with practical application to prepare students for diverse careers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, energy, manufacturing, and robotics. Emphasizing innovation, problem-solving, and technical proficiency, the curriculum is designed to foster analytical thinking and hands-on skills through laboratory work, projects, and internships. Graduates of this programme are well-prepared to meet the dynamic demands of modern engineering and contribute effectively to technological advancement and sustainable development. UG PhD Insights Facilities MoU’s Brochure Professional Society Number of Students 536 Faculty 25 Patent 18 Laboratories 22 Publications 522 Projects 23 People Academic Faculty Visiting Faculty / Research Fellowship Supporting Staff Research Academic Research Publications Patent Sponsored Research Consultancy Projects Highlights SIG Gallery Innovative Teaching Achievements Newsletter Outreach Activities Events Upcoming Events Past Events Students Higher Studies Internship Projects Associations Notable Alumni Padma Bhushan Er. S. Nambi Narayanan 1965- Mechanical ,ISRO - Scientist Padma Shri Er. V. Gnanagandhi 1968 – Mechanical ,ISRO - Scientist Padma Shri Er. N. Vedachalam 1964-Mechanical ,ISRO - Scientist Padma Bhushan Er. S. Nambi Narayanan (1965 Batch) Mechanical ,ISRO - Scientist Padma Shri Er. V. Gnanagandhi (1968 Batch) Mechanical ,ISRO - Scientist Padma Shri Er. N. Vedachalam (1964 Batch) Mechanical ,ISRO - Scientist Mr. Ajayan Sahadevan (2002 Batch) Global Board of Directors Oldendorff Carriers Dubai Mr. I A S Balamurugan (1991 Batch) Managing Director, Anicut Capital LLP, Chennai Dr. C. Mathiazhagan (1984 Batch) Chairman & CEO Hi-Tech Company Software Solutions (Chennai) P Ltd. Dr. R. Venkatraman (1984 Batch) Former Associate Director of Satish Dhawan Space Center SHAR (SDSC SHAR) Industrial Visits Industrial visit- 2025 26- Nil Sl.No Date of Visits Year Place of Visit Total No. of Students 1 12.10.2022 II Indian Space Research Organization, Sriharikota 101 2 13.10.2023 III Solar Observatory, Kodaikanal 115 3 07.03.2024 III J K Fenner Ltd, Nilakottai 54 4 11.10.2024 II Indian Space Research Organization, Sriharikota 108 Guest Lectures Guest Lectures - 2023-24, 2024-25,2025-26 – Nil. Sl.No Name of the Event Academic Year Name of the Speaker Designation Supersonic Jet flow and its noise 2022-23 Dr.T.J. Sarvoththama Jothi, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Calicut Awareness Programme on Higher Studies - III [Common Entrance Examination for Design(CEED)]" 2021-22 Mr. Abhishek Sudharsan, Experience Designer, Moonraft Innovation Labs, Bangalore Innovative practices in high-value manufacturing supply chains Gap analysis" 2021-22 Dr. Nachiappan Subramanian Professor of Operations & Logistics Management and Supply Chains, University of Sussex Business School, Brighton, United Kingdom, Impact of Industry 4.0 of Naval Systems 2020-21 Dr. O.R. Nandagopan, Scientist ‘H’/Outstanding Scientist, Director, Naval Science & Technological Laboratory, Govt. of India, Minsitry of Defence, Visakhapatnam - 530027 Gait Analysis: An introduction” 2020-21 Dr. S. Kanagaraj, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati Cooling Challenges in Continuous casting 2020-21 Dr. N. Ashok Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Trichy Role of Composites in Biomedical applications 2020-21 Dr. T. Ramesh, Associate Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Trichy, Design for Additive Manufacturing 2020-21 Dr. Senthilkumaran Kumaraguru, Assistant Professor, Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Kancheepuram Combustion engines and its existence with Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEV)" 2019-20 Mr.Karthikeyan Kannan Project Engineer-Advanced simulation concepts, BorgWamer Turbo Systems Gmbh, 67292,Kirchheimbolanden, Germany. Principles of power steering systems for Trucks, Buses, LCVs and Passenger Cars 2019-20 Mr. K. Sudhakar Senior Vice President (Operations & TQM) Rane TRW Steering systems Pvt ltd Chennai Project Management” 2019-20 Mr. Sujan Joseph Paul S, Manager - CKD Overseas Planning Daimler India Commercial Vehicles, Chennai Shape Memory Alloy for Composite Materials 2019-20 Dr. I. A. Palani, Associate Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Indore. Need of Solar Energy for Industries 2019-20 Dr.Gowtham Mohan , Assistant Professor, The University of New Mexico, USA Pillars of Toyota Production System (TPS) with live case studies 2019-20 Mr. N. Muthusamy Senior Manager QMS, Ashok Leyland Corporate, Chennai Virtual Manufacturing 2019-20 Mr. Prathik Navalpakkam Founder & Principal Consultant, Honeycomb Consultants, Chennai Digital Manufacturing 2019-20 Mr. Rohit Mallya Head –Emerging Technologies, PLM Indish Tech Pvt Ltd, Bangalore Higher studies Opportunities and Schemes for Mechanical Engineering students in foreign countries 2019-20 Mr. P. Chidambaram PG scholar M.Sc. (Product design and development) Chalmers University of Technology Investor Awareness Program”, 2018-19 Mr. Vinod Tantri Founder, SIWA Learning Solution, Bangalore Hydraulics 2018-19 Mr. L G Raghavan, DGM Quality., TAFE Growth of Indian Space Research and benefits to common man 2018-19 Mr. V Ramamoorthi Scientist, ISRO(Retd), Department of Space, Chennai Manufacturing Technology: Forgings and Gears a Practical outlook 2018-19 Mr. D. Ravi Shankar Divisional Manager Supply Chain, TAFE Necessity of geometric modeling for product design” by, 2018-19 Mr. T. Dharun Velmani M.Sc. (Product design & development), Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden Higher study Opportunities for Mechanical Engineers in Germany 2017-18 Mr. Karthik Rajkumar Master student of BMW, Munich, Germany Contact us Dr. K. Srithar Professor & Head Email: hodmech [at] tce [dot] edu Phone: +91 452 2482430 Extn: 401 Office Extn: 402 Department of Mechanical Engineering, Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai - 625015 Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact