About the College | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC About the College Breadcrumb Home > About The College About the College Thiagarajar College of Engineering (TCE) is as a Government Aided Autonomous Institution, established in 1957 by the philanthropist Late Karumuttu Thiagarajan Chettiar. TCE is affiliated to Anna University, Chennai, and approved by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). TCE offers a wide array of Undergraduate, Postgraduate and Ph.D. Programs across various disciplines of Engineering, Architecture and Science. The campus is set within a serene and eco-friendly environment surrounded by dense vegetation and best infrastructure facilities. Each academic Department at TCE is dedicated to a specific theme, fostering synergy between faculty and students in academic and research endeavours. These themes encompass diverse areas such as Eco-friendly Structures, Power and Energy, Automation, Automotive, Wireless Technologies, Distributed Computing, Database Management, Modelling and Simulation, Material Science, Green Chemistry, and Heritage. TCE has consistently embraced reforms and upgrades in its Teaching-Learning processes. Noteworthy initiatives include the implementation of a Competency-Based Curriculum and Outcome-Based Education. Since 2018, TCE has adopted the Conceive Design Implement Operate (CDIO) framework, shaping curriculum design, pedagogical methods, and assessment techniques, with adequate hands-on training to students. The institution has also launched Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) in 2021 and introduced the Thiagarajar Research Fellowship (TRF) scheme for Ph.D. research scholars, furthering its commitment to academic excellence and research innovation. The college maintains active industry collaborations with leading global organizations. These collaborations have resulted in the establishment of state-of-the-art laboratories, industry-oriented curriculum design, collaborative projects, professional training programs, student internships, and placements. For instance, Subject Matter Experts from TVS Motors have collaborated with TCE faculty to co-create the curriculum for Mechanical Engineering and Electrical Engineering programs, in addition to the establishment of T S Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research. TCE's active participation in the Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP) under the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has led to innovative teaching and learning processes, faculty development programs, industry-supported research activities, and good governance initiatives. TCE is involved in national and international ranking frameworks, showcasing its commitment to excellence and quality in education. The institution's programs have been accredited by NBA since 1998, indicating compliance with quality standards in technical education. The programmes offered at institution has garnered numerous accolades, including accreditation by NAAC with a CGPA of 3.56 (out of 4.0) with A ++ Grade in Cycle 2.  Engineering departments have been recognized with the "Best Industry Linked Technical Institutions award” by AICTE and the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII). Faculty members have earned International Certification in Engineering Education by IUCEE, Cambridge International certification and Wipro Mission 10x. Dr. R. Vasudevan, Professor in the Chemistry Department, received the "Padma Shri" for his pioneering work on plastic roads. TCE students have actively participated and succeeded in events like the Smart India Hackathon (SIH), showcasing their talent and problem-solving abilities. Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact