YRC | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC YRC Breadcrumb Home > Campus Life > YRC YRC Vision Each generation passes on the torch of development to the next. Hence it becomes the challenge for the present generation to groom the future of tomorrow and that is the 'Youth'. The Indian Red Cross which has in its fraternity 10 million Youth Red Cross (YRC) and Junior Red Cross (JRC) members keeps on organizing various programmes and activities for the youth. Mission The Indian Red Cross is to inspire, encourage and initiate at all times all forms of humanitarian activities so that human suffering can be minimized and even prevented and thus contribute to creating more congenial climate for peace. Informing youth members and others the role and the responsibilities of the Red Cross and encourage them to contribute An awareness on the care of their own health and that of others The understanding and acceptance of civic responsibilities and acting accordingly with humanitarian concern, to fulfill the same To enable the growth and development of a spirit of service and sense of duty with dedication and devotion in the minds of youth To promote better friendly relationship with all without any discrimination Principles Protection of Health & Life Service to the Sick & Suffering Promotion of National & International Friendship, to develop the mental and moral capacities of the youth Regular Activity YOUTH RED CROSS Activity S. No Name of the Activity 1 Introduction of YRC for first year in orientation program 2 Fire Safety  program 3 Blood Donation Camp – I 4 Basic Life Support  program 5 Trekking – I 6 Food Safety Awareness program 7 Organ Donation Awareness  program 8 Trekking – II 9 Blood Donation Camp -II About IRCS The Indian Red Cross society is a voluntary humanitarian organization having a network of over 1100 branches throughout the country, providing relief in times of disasters/emergencies and promotes health & care of the vulnerable people and communities. It is a leading member of the largest independent humanitarian organization in the world, the International Red Cross & Red Crescent Movement. The movement has three main components, the International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC), 192 National Societies and International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) was established in 1920 under the Indian Red Cross Society Act and incorporated under Parliament Act XV of 1920. The act was last amended in 1992 and of rules were formed in 1994. The IRCS has 36 State / Union Territories Branches with their more than 1100 districts and sub district branches. Honourable President of India is the President and Hon'ble Union Health Minister is the Chairman of the Society. The Vice Chairman is elected by the members of the Managing Body. History Young Swiss businessman, Jean Henry Dunant was appalled by the condition of the wounded soldiers he happened to see in the battle field of Solferino, Italy in 1859 during the Franco - Austrian war. He arranged relief services with the help of the local community immediately. He wrote the book 'Memory of Solferino' suggesting that a neutral organization be established to aid the wounded soldiers in times of war. Just a year after the release of this book, an international conference was convened in Geneva to consider the suggestions of Henry Dunant and thus the Red Cross Movement was born. International Red Cross Movement was established by Geneva Convention of 1864. The name and the emblem of the movement are derived from the reversal of the Swiss national flag, to honor the country in which Red Cross was found. Origin During the first world war in 1914, India had no organization for relief services to the affected soldiers, except a branch of the St. John Ambulance Association and by a Joint Committee of the British Red Cross. Later, a branch of the same Committee was started to undertake the much needed relief services in collaboration with the St. John Ambulance Association in aid of the soldiers as well as civilian sufferers of the horrors of that Great War. A bill to constitute the Indian Red Cross Society, Independent of the British Red Cross, was introduced in the Indian Legislative Council on 3rd March 1920 by Sir Claude Hill, member of the Viceroy's Executive Council who was also Chairman of the Joint war Committee in India. The Bill was passed on 17th March 1920 and became Act XV of 1920 with the assent of the Governor General on the 20th March 1920. On 7th June 1920, fifty members were formally nominated to constitute the Indian Red Cross Society and the first Managing Body was elected from among them with Sir Malcolm Hailey as Chairman. YRC Coordinator : Dr. V. Velkannan, Assistant Professor Chemistry Mobile Number : 9840839171 Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact