 
   Thiagarajar College of Engineering 
Madurai – 625 015 
 
   Intellectual Property Rights Cell(IPR Cell) 
(Research & Development) 
 
Standard Operating Procedure 
TCE is having an exclusive IP Policy and IPR Cell. 
1. Anyone who believes to be in possession of a potential Intellectual Property 
generated while associated and/or in service of TCE may approach and set up 
discussions with the members of the IPR cell at any mutually convenient time. 
2. The Ownership of all IP developed by TCE faculty, students, and researchers in the 
course of or pursuant to research and development at TCE using TCE resources or 
funded by TCE, shall vest with TCE. The respective faculty, students, and 
researchers shall be named as inventors and assign all IP rights to TCE. 
3. Faculty, Research scholars, Students and Staff members of the Institute who evolve 
know-how/designs/instruments/devices/processes that is can be protected as 
IP(s) will be required to submit the application form (Form A) approved by HoD 
and Dean R&D along with the Invention Disclosure Form (Form B ) to 
iprcell@tce.edu. [Before filling the application form kindly, go through the TCE IP 
Policy]. 
4. Acknowledgement of the receipt of the application will be sent to the applicant 
within seven (7) working days. 
5. On receipt of the application, Dean (R &D) will put it up to the Scrutiny Board. The 
Scrutiny Board can engage consultant(s) to examine the application and make 
specific recommendations in respect of the novelty and commercial value within. 
6. Based on their scrutiny reports, the IP filing shall be done either through the IPR  
consultant or through TCE IPR Cell. 
7. After obtaining Chairman's approval, Inventors Assignment Agreement is to be 
signed and the IP filing process will be initiated which includes the following: 

(i) IP fee: 
 
a) TCE, Madurai will pay 100 % of the IP registration expenditure. 
b) The IP renewal fees for the first seven years in all cases when IP is taken by TCE, 
Madurai. 
c) If it is a joint IP with sponsoring agency, then the IP processing cost will be 
equally shared. If the other agency does not show interest in such process, TCE, 
Madurai can either continue the IP by paying the fees for its full term or withdraw 
application for the IP protection, at its discretion. 
(ii) Revenue sharing: The revenue sharing arrangements are as below: 60 % (sixty 
percent) of the total revenue (lump sum payment, royalty or any other form) accruing 
from the commercial exploitation of IP owned by TCE Madurai shall be credited to 
Inventors and 40% of the revenue will be to the cred of TCE, Madurai. 
TCE, Madurai bears the charges incurred for processing and acquisition of intellectual 
property rights and the TCE, Madurai shall bear the maintenance charges for first 7 years 
or till commercialization, whatsoever is earlier. 
(iii) Sponsored Research: Before the commencement of any Sponsored Research, TCE 
Madurai will enter into a written Agreement/understanding with the Sponsoring Agency 
setting all commercial aspects of the project including but not limited to ownership of  
intellectual property and royalty sharing, which shall be be subject to TCE Madurai’s 
Chairman's approval. 
(iv) Industry Supported IPRs:  Before the commencement of any Industry support 
projects, TCE Madurai will enter into a written Agreement/understanding with the 
Industry Partner setting all commercial aspects of the project including but not limited to 
ownership of intellectual property and royalty sharing, which shall be be subject to TCE 
Madurai’s Chairman's approval. 
(v) IP with faculty/technical person from other institution/company: Before the 
engaging any faculty/technical person from other institution/company, TCE Madurai will 
enter into a  written Agreement/understanding with the faculty/technical person from 
other institution/company setting all commercial aspects of the project including but not 
limited to ownership of intellectual property and royalty sharing, which shall be subject 
to TCE Madurai’s Chairman's approval. 
(vi) The Institute may consider requests for registration of IPs in foreign countries, 
based on the merit of the inventions. 
 
(vii) *Technology Transfer/Commercialization: 
 
TCE shall strive to market the lP and identify potential licensee(s) for the lP to which it 
has ownership. The creator(s) shall assist in this process. 
TCE may contract the lP to a technology management agency, which manages the 
commercialization of the lP. For the lP for which exclusive rights have not been already  
assigned to a third party, the creator(s) may also contact potential licensee(s) on their  
initiative maintaining confidentiality and taking all necessary care so as not to affect the 
value of the lP through appropriate agreements such as Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) 
with the potential licensee(s) during technology marketing discussions. 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI 625 015 
 
Research & Development – IPR Cell 
 
Standard Operating Procedure for Submitting IPR Proposal  
 
Objective:  
 To guide the inventors for submitting IPR proposal in a systematic way.   
 To increase number of IPRs.  
 
Sl.No Activity Responsibility Time Forms to be 
submitted 
1 
Submission of New Patent 
Filing Requisition Form 
(Form: A)  to IPR Cell 
Inventors Any time 
Form A 
(New Patent 
Filing 
Requisition 
Form) 
2 
Sending Acknowledgement 
to the Corresponding 
Inventor with TCE 
Application Number 
IPR Cell One week from the 
receipt of Form A -- 
3 
Submission of soft copy of 
Invention Disclosure Form 
(IDF) - Form: B to IPR Cell 
(iprcell@tce.edu)  
Inventors 
One month from the 
receipt of 
Acknowledgement 
(T0) 
Form B 
(Invention 
Disclosure Form) 
4 Sending IDF (Form: B) to 
the Scrutiny Committee IPR Cell 
After receiving 3 
IDFs/ once in a 
Month  
(T0+30 days) 
-- 
5 Receiving Scrutiny Report Scrutiny 
Committee 
Two Weeks 
(T0+45 days) 
Form C 
(IPR Proposal 
Evaluation form) 
6 
Intimation of the decision to 
inventors (Patentable/ 
Commercially viable) 
IPR Cell T0+ 47 Mail 
7 Submission of Inventors 
Agreement Bond Document Inventors T0 +55 Form D 
8 Chairman Approval for IP 
filing 
IPR Cell, 
Inventors T0+ 70 - 
9 Initiation of Patent Filing IPR Cell, 
Inventors T0+75 - 
 
 
 
 
 
