ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Breadcrumb Home > ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes We are very happy to convey that Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai is  the recognised nodal Centre for ISRO-IIRS outreach program from 2016 and  ISRO-START program from 2024 . ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programs Conducted @TCE Nodal Centre- Annexure I ISRO –START Outreach Program - Annexure II Annual Course Calendar - Annexure III The outreach programs are conducted exclusively from Remote Sensing  Laboratory, part of Department of Electronics and Communication, which  serves as ISRO Network Institute and Nodal Centre. Since its inception as nodal centre, TCE has participated in 73 IIRs outreach programs  and about 498 Students from various Departments has been benefited. IIRs Outreach Programme focuses on strengthening the Academia and User Segments in  Space Technology and Its applications using Online Learning Platforms. Under this  programme the two mode of content delivery system is developed using online platform  i.e Live and interactive mode (known as EDUSAT) and e- Learning mode. The use of Remote Sensing, Geographical Information System, Global Navigation  Satellite System and associated geospatial technologies is increasing rapidly, creating an  urgent demand for trained manpower. The live and interactive mode of distance learning  is enabled through Internet and A-view software platform developed by Amrita e learning Lab in collaboration with Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD)  Government of India. The programs are available through Internet without any cost to the user. The live and interactive sessions will be conducted by experts from  IISR-ISRO and other knowledge Institutions. The beneficiaries of the programme may  include: Central/State/Private Universities & Academic Institutions; Central & State Government Organizations/Departments; Research Institutes; Geospatial Industry; NGOs IIRS also conducts various theme oriented online courses and monthly webinars on  recent topics on geospatial technologies and its applications. Users are encouraged to  actively participate on these programs. For more detail please visit IIRS official website- www.iirs.gov.in Mode of Registration for the course: Determine your eligibility: Before applying online, make sure your eligibility. Eligibility details are given below: The course is open for all the Student of undergraduate course/  Postgraduate course (any year). Technical/ Scientific Staff of Central/ State Government Ministries/  Departments Faculty / Researchers at university / institutions are also eligible to  participate in this course. Selection of Course details: During online application form you have to select the course which you wish to  apply. Universities/institutions/Institute: We have list of universities/institutions/colleges networked under IIRS Outreach  Programme. Select your university, if your university is not listed please  refer Procedure to join IIRS Outreach network. After approval from IIRS  /ISRO you can register. Personal Details: Please provide your personal details like Name, Designation, Date of Birth,  Gender, Nationality, E-Mail etc. Educational Details: Please provide your education details starting from SSC to Degree level Other details: Please provide the detail as per the online form Documents Upload: Please upload your recent photograph & identification proof Live & Interactive programme can be received in two ways A-View: A-VIEW is an advanced multi-modal, multi-platform, collaborative e learning solution which allows an instructor to teach or interact with a large  number of learners transcending geographies on a real-time basis through live  audio video streaming and synchronized content sharing. A-VIEW allows the  instructor to perform live evaluation of the learners and to get real-time feedback  from attendees on the go. A-VIEW can also act as an online meeting tool that can  support online social collaboration and interactions with multiple users from  various locations simultaneously. Download A-VIEW ( http://aview.in/ ) Webcasting : Webcasting is the process of video broadcasting live over the  internet. To watch our live programme through our webcasting service click  here:( http://iirs.gov.in/ ) Course Study Material Course study materials such as lecture slides, video recorded lectures, open source  software, data & handouts of demonstrations, etc., will be made available through IIRS  ftp link (ftp://ftp.iirs.gov.in).Video lectures will also be uploaded on YouTube  Channel (http://www.youtube.com/user/edusat2004). Course Fee There is no course fee. It’s absolutely a free of cost programme. Award of Certificate Working Professionals: Based on 70% attendance and submission of assignments. Students: Based on 70% attendance and online examination. Awards and Recognitions The participants and participating organizations are invited to attend annual IIRS User  Interactive Meet (IUIM) at IIRS Dehradun. The participants can submit their feedback  online through IIRS e-learning portal. Feedbacks are critically analyzed and implemented  in next courses. IIRS received two national awards for excellence in training for outreach and e-learning  programme by Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT), Govt. of India in  collaboration with United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The list of outreach programs hosted by Thiagarajar College as nodel centre,  since 2016 is given as annexure I ISRO-START (Space Science and Technology Awareness Training) Program:  This is another outreach program launched by Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in association with Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) under the theme  ‘Exploration of the Solar system’. For further details on ISRO-START program, click the  following annexure II For Contact Dr A Alaguraja – Coordinator ISRO- IIRS outreach program Professor, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai-15 Email: alaguraja [at] tce [dot] edu, Ph: 9442088815 Dr Sunija A.J – Co-cordinator ISRO- IIRS outreach program Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai-15 Email: ajschem [at] tce [dot] edu Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact