<<Course Code – Course Plan – Academic year>> 
 
Page 1 of 5 
 
  THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI 625 015. 
Department of Applied Mathematics and Computational Science 
 
COURSE PLAN 
 
Degree:         Department:                          Programme:  
Semester:                Academic Year:                Course Name:   
         Course  Code:      Staff In charge:       Staff Dept. :  
 
S. No. Course outcomes TPS/Blooms Level 
CO1   
CO2   
CO3   
CO4   
CO5   
CO6..   
 
Course Plan:  
Module 
No. Module Name CO 
No. 
Duration  
(Hours)* 
Content Delivery 
Method1 
Resources and Tools 
Active learning 
strategy2 Assessment method3 
1 Introduction to the course – Syllabus and 
prerequisites 
 
- 
 
1 Discussion 
- Brain Storming  
2 Topic 1 
2.1 Sub topic 1 CO1 
 1 Lecture with 
Demonstrations 
 
 Quiz 
2.2 Sub topic 2 CO2 2 - 
2.3 Sub topic 3 … CO1 
         1 TPS Worksheet  
3 Topic 2 
3.1 Sub topic 1 CO1 1 Flipped Classroom 
 
 
Programming 
Exercises         Concept test 3.2 Sub topic 2 CO1 1 
3.3 Sub topic 3 … CO3 1 Peer Instruction  
3.4 Type conversions CO3 1 
Coding session 8.5 Practice problems  1 Problem Solving 
Worksheet 
Problem solving written 
test 
 Total  nn      

<<Course Code – Course Plan – Academic year>> 
 
Page 2 of 5 
 
 
* Duration shall be 1 or 2 hours only 
 
Reference Books and web resources:  
1. 
2.  
 
 
PLAN FOR ASSIGNMENTS 
  
Assignment Assessment Tool Assessment Period Course Outcome Topics Max. 
Marks 
1 
Assessment Tool1,  
Assessment Tool2, …  -- to -- CO2,3,4 (50% 
,25%,25%) Topic 1, Topic 2… 40 
2 
Mini Project (30 marks) 
Poster presentation (10 
marks) 
August 2nd  week to 
September 3rd week 
2024 
CO4,5,6 
(40%,30%,30%) Topic 1, Topic 2…      40 
       * Assignment marks should be based on the course syllabus assessment pattern (Second line is a sample) 
 
 
 
Staff In charge             HoD/<Dept> 
 
 
  
<<Course Code – Course Plan – Academic year>> 
 
Page 3 of 5 
 
Content delivery method (Not limited to):  
• Lecture with simulation 
• Lecture with discussion 
• Lecture with demonstrations 
• Problem solving 
• Peer teaching / group learning 
• Case study / Seminar 
• Blended learning with self developed e-lectures 
• Role play 
• Project based learning 
• MOOC 
• Tutorial 
• Panel discussion 
• Flipped Classroom 
 
 
Active Learning strategies (Not limited to) 
• Think-Pair- Share 
• Brainstorming 
• Peer Review 
• Debates/ Group discussion 
• Minute paper 
• Problem-solving 
• Interactive simulations/ virtual labs 
• Field trips 
• Game based learning 
• Group Projects 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment tools with range of scores for assignment marks(Max. 80): (NOT limited to)  
<<Course Code – Course Plan – Academic year>> 
 
Page 4 of 5 
 
 
Sl. No. Assessment Tool Nature of Assessment 
Knowledge / Concept Level (Marks: 10 - 30) 
i.  Review Multiple Choice Questions, Fill Ups, Cross words etc conducted during course 
after completion of few modules. 
ii.  Quiz Questions from Technical concepts, debugging, design challenges etc. 
iii.  Case Study – Analysis Problem statement to be given to students along with a questionnaire. Student s  
to interpret the details and submit their findings 
iv.  Worksheets Problem Solving - Students to solve the given problems in a team or individually  
v.  Poster Presentation Creation of the posters for a given task, relevant to the course 
vi.  Model Making Prototyping of a given task, relevant to the course 
Communication Skills (Marks: 10 – 30) 
vii.  Seminar Oral Presentation on topics relevant to the course 
viii.  Video Presentations Presentations of Videos or Video lectures or short film related to course 
ix.  Field Visit Students to visit an Industry or  site relevant to  their course for collection of  data 
and to present the details as a report. 
x.  Discussion Forum 
(Asynchronous) 
Technical issues relevant to the course to be floated as a discussion in an online 
forum like Canvas, Wiki, Moodle etc. The students to be assessed based on their 
participation.  
xi.  Group Discussion Technical issues to be given to a group of students in class and assessment to be 
made  based on the involvement of students in group 
xii.  Comprehensive Viva Conducted at the end of the semester, on one to one basis. 
Professional Skills (Marks: 40 -50) 
xiii.  Mini Project Hardware or a software project to be done as an individual or as a group.  
xiv.  Online Coding Events Code generation for set of tasks, relevant to the course 
xv.  Journal Review Technical paper review and presentation in the class by making literature study.  
<<Course Code – Course Plan – Academic year>> 
 
Page 5 of 5 
 
Sl. No. Assessment Tool Nature of Assessment 
xvi.  Collaborative Work 
(Group Grid, Group Problem 
Solving, STAD, TAI, etc ) 
Group activity carried out in -class and outside class to be evaluated as an 
individual and as a team.  
xvii.  Concept Test @ HOTS  
(GATE level questions) 
Assessment of all the concepts related to the course to be conducted at the end of 
the semester (Open Book optional) 
xviii.  Research Proposal/  
Research problem 
identification 
Preparation of a  research proposal by referring  to journals and presentation in 
class.  
xix.  Data Collection and 
Interpretation 
Data collection in real time or through questionnaire, interpretation of data and 
follow up measures submitted as a report. 
xx.  Report on Software/hardware 
Implementation  
Preparation of  a hardware/software model for the concepts learnt in the class and 
report submission after conducting practical experiments.  
xxi.  MOOC completion 
NPTEL/Coursera/ EdX 
Completion of MOOC course and submission of certificates 
 
Note: 
1. The assessment plan is to be prepared by the faculty using the prescribed template and approved by HOD.  
2. If more than one tool in each category is used or if a single tool is used  more than once, then average marks may be considered. 
3. Assignments shall be a combination of individual and group assessments.  
4. Any other innovative assignments though not in the above list shall be used if approved by HOD 
5. Same set of tools shall be used for interim assessment in the course plan 
 