 THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution Affiliated to Anna University 
Approved by AICTE, Ranked in NIRF, Programmes Accredited by NBA 
Accredited with A+ Grade (3.47 out of 4) by NAAC in Cycle 1)  
  MADURAI 625015, Tamil Nadu 
 
 
Web:www.tce.edu      Phone: 0452-2482240, 04522482430       Fax: 0452-2483427     E-mail:principal@tce.edu 
 
 
 
Code of Conduct: Supporting Staff 
1. Cleanliness and Preparation: Staff members are responsible for ensuring cleanliness 
and readiness of their respective office, workshop, or laboratory for practical classes. 
2. Identification: All staff members must wear ID cards visibly while within the campus 
premises. 
3. Material Distribution: Staff members shall distribute components or consumables to 
students only after proper guidance from the faculty handling the course. 
4. Equipment Maintenance : Staff members have the responsibility to ensure that all 
equipment is in working order. 
5. Equipment Shutdown: Staff members are responsible for switching off all equipment 
after use. 
6. Reporting: Staff members must report maintenance, repair, theft, or damage incidents 
in coordination with the respective lab-in-charges. 
7. Information Display : Staff members, in coordination with lab-in-charges, should 
display: 
o List of equipment, machines, and software with costs. 
o List of experiments or exercises. 
o Lab/workshop timetable on the lab notice board. 
8. Stock Maintenance: Staff members, in coordination with section/lab-in-charges, are 
responsible for maintaining the stock register. 
9. Dress Code : Staff members are instructed to follow the dress code within the 
institution. 
10. Timely Presence: Staff members must be present in their respective offices, sections, 
or labs as per the allotted time in the timetable without exceptions. 
By adhering to these guidelines, supporting staff contribute to the efficient functioning of the 
institution and the smooth conduct of practical classes and workshops. 
 