B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
 THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI – 625 015 
(A Govt. Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University) 
 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 
B.E. and B.Tech. Degree Programmes (Full Time) 
(CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM) 
 
These rules and regulations are applicable to the students admitted from the 
academic year 2022-23 onwards 
 
1.0 PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE 
 
 In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:   
a. “ Degree” means that academic award conferred upon a student on successful 
completion of a programme designed to achieve the defined attributes. It is 
referred to as Under-Graduate (UG) Degree, that is B.E./ B.Tech. Degree.  
b. “Programme” means cohesive arrangement of courses, co-curricular and 
extracurricular activities to accomplish predetermined objectives leading to the 
awarding of a degree. It also means specialization or discipline of B.E. / B.Tech. 
Degree programme like Civil Engineering, Information Technology, etc. 
c. “ Course” means a theory, practical or Theory-cum-Practical subject studied in a 
semester, like Mathematics, Physics, etc. 
d. “University” means ANNA UNIVERSITY. 
 
2.0 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION 
 
2.1  Regular Admission 
 The   students   seeking   admission to the Bachelor of Engineering and Bachelor of 
Technology programme shall require satisfying eligibility rules as prescribed by the 
affiliating University and Directorate of Technical Education, Chennai, from time to 
time. 
 
2.2  Lateral Entry Admission  
 
The students who possess the Diploma in Engineering / Technology awarded by the 
State Board of Technical Education, Tamil Nadu or its equivalent are eligible to apply 
for Lateral entry admission to the third semester of B.E. / B.Tech. in the programme 
corresponding to the branch of study.    
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
3.0 PROGRAMMES OF STUDY 
            B.E. Degree 
  Programme – I :  Civil Engineering 
Programme – II :  Mechanical Engineering 
Programme – III :  Electrical and Electronics Engineering 
Programme – IV :  Electronics and Communication Engineering 
Programme – V :  Computer Science and Engineering 
Programme – VI :  Mechatronics 
      B.Tech. Degree 
Programme – I :  Information Technology 
Programme –II : Computer Science and Business Systems 
 
 4.0 STRUCTURE OF PROGRAMMES 
4.1  Categorization of Courses  
Each programme shall have a curriculum comprising of Theory, Theory-cum-Practical 
and Practical courses with well-defined Program Outcomes (PO), Programme Specific 
Outcome (PSO) and Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) as per Outcome 
Based Education (OBE) and Conceive-Design-Implement-Operate (CDIO) framework. 
The content of each course is designed based on the Course Outcomes(CO).  The 
courses of a programme are categorized as follows:  
A. Foundation Courses 
a. Humanities and Social Science including Management (HSSM) 
b. Basic Science(BS) 
c. Engineering Science (ES) 
B. Professional Core Courses relevant to the chosen programme of study. 
C. Professional Elective Courses 
a. Programme Specific Elective 
b. Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope 
D. Open Elective Courses 
a. Interdisciplinary Elective 
b. Science and Humanities Elective 
E. Project, Seminar, Internship in Industry or at Higher learning institutions. 
F. Mandatory Courses prescribed by AICTE / UGC/Anna University 
 
  
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
The recommended distribution of credits for each category is given Table 1. 
Table1: Credit Distribution 
S.No Category Credits 
(Regular) 
Credits 
(Lateral) 
A. Foundation Courses 54–66 27-48 
Humanities and Social Sciences including 
Management (HSSM) 
9–12 6-9 
Basic Science (BS) 24 -27 9–12 
Engineering Science (ES) 21-27          8-15 
B. Professional Core Courses 55 44-45 
C. Professional Elective Courses 24 – 39 24 – 39 
Programme Specific Elective 15 – 24 15 – 24 
Programme Elective for Expanded Scope 9 -15 9 -15 
D. Open Elective Courses 6-12 6-12 
Interdisciplinary Elective 3-6 3-6 
Science and Humanities Elective 3-6 3-6 
E. Project, Seminar, Internship in industry or at 
Higher Learning institutions 
12 12 
F. Mandatory Courses prescribed by 
AICTE/UGC/Anna University 
(Not to be included  for GPA and CGPA) 
- - 
 Minimum Credits to be earned for the award of 
the Degree 
160 
( from A to E) 
and the 
successful  
completion of 
Mandatory 
Courses 
120 
( from A to E) 
and the 
successful  
completion of 
Mandatory 
Courses 
4.2.1 Personality and Character Development : 
 All students shall register, on admission, in any one of the personality and character 
development programmes (NCC/NSS) and undergo training and attends camps as 
prescribed by the respective officers / coordinators. The training shall include classes 
on hygiene and health awareness and also training in first aid. 
 National Cadet Corps (NCC) will have a number of parades/camps specified by 
the NCC officer. 
 National Service Scheme (NSS) will have social service activities in and around 
the college specified by the NSS coordinator 
 Sports, games, drills and physical exercises specified by the Physical Director 
 While the training activities will normally be during weekends, the camp will normally 
be during vacation period. Every student shall put in a minimum attendance in the 
training and attend the camp. The training and camps shall be completed during the 
first year of the programme. However, for valid reasons, the Principal may permit a 
student to complete this requirement in the second year. 
 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
4.3 In assigning the credits for the courses, One hour lecture/week, One hour 
tutorial/week, Two hours practical/week, Two hours project work or seminar/week is 
equivalent to 1 credit. 
4.4 The curriculum of each semester shall normally be a blend of Theory courses, 
Theory-Cum-Practical and practical courses.  
 
4.5 Internship  
Each student has to undergo internship in an industry or at the institution. Two weeks 
of internship at industry/institution is equivalent to 1 credit. The internship report will 
be evaluated by a team of faculty members nominated by the Head of the 
Department for awarding the grade. Based on the recommendation by the team, the 
student will be awarded grade and credit and the results will be sent to The Controller 
of Examinations to indicate in the Mark Sheet. Each student has to earn 3 credits (6 
Weeks) through internship in order to be eligible for the award of the Degree. 
However, it will not be considered for GPA and CGPA calculations. 
 
 In addition to the minimum requirement, of 3 credits, if a student earns 3 more credits 
(6 Weeks of internship in one organization), the student may drop one Programme 
Elective course. However, if the number of credits earned is 1 or 2, these credits 
shall not be considered for exemption from Programme Elective Category. 
 
4.6 Industrial Visit  
 Every student is expected to undergo one industrial visit every year starting from 
second semester of the programme, subject to the approval of the Head of the 
Department and Principal.  
 
4.7 Industry supported Courses:  
4.7.1 Students can opt for one-credit courses and two credit courses, offered by experts 
from industry/ research organizations and approved by academic council.   Students 
can register such courses from his/her third year of study as and when these courses 
are conducted by different departments. A student is also permitted to register for 
these courses of other departments, provided the student has fulfilled the necessary 
pre-requisites of the course being offered and subject to the approval of both the 
heads of departments. There is no limit to the number of one-credit or two credit 
courses a student can register during the programme of study. However, a student 
can register for only one course in a semester. These courses are evaluated by the 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
respective course coordinator of the programme. The maximum number of credits 
that can be earned from industry supported courses is limited to 4.  
4.7.2  If a student does not successfully complete the registered online course or absent for 
the terminal examination, no supplementary examination will be conducted. Further, 
it will be considered as arrear and the student will not be eligible for First Class with 
Distinction. The registration of that course will be considered as cancelled. If a 
student wishes, he/she can re-register for the same course and successfully 
complete it as and when it is offered subsequently. 
 
4.8 Guided Study Course 
 A student, who does not have history of arrear in the programme and CGPA greater 
than 8.0, can study ONE course under Programme Specific Elective or Programme 
Specific Elective for Expanded Scope in Elective category after his/her Second year 
of study, as a guided study course. One faculty member approved by the Head of the 
Department shall be responsible for the periodic monitoring and evaluation of the 
course. The student does not need to attend the classes. However, the student has 
to appear for continuous assessment tests and submit assignments to the respective 
faculty-in-charge assigned by the Head of the Department. 
 
4.9 Interdisciplinary Elective 
 Interdisciplinary electives are courses offered by different departments. These 
courses do not have any prerequisites and could be chosen as electives by students 
of any programme. Students should opt for the courses offered from other 
departments only.  
 
4.10Science and Humanities Elective 
 Science and Humanities electives are advanced courses offered by Science & 
Humanities departments. These courses do not have any prerequisites and could be 
chosen in the even semester of academic year, as electives by students of any 
programme. 
 
4.11    Online Courses 
 Students are permitted to register for online courses offered by NPTEL and our 
institution (which are provided with certificate after evaluation of the performance 
through proctored examination), from his/her second semester of study as and when 
these courses are offered, subject to the approval of the respective head of the 
department. On successful completion of the NPTEL course, he/she has to submit 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
the copy of the certificate to the Head of the Department for exemption from 
registering for an elective course. Based on the recommendation by the team of 
faculty members nominated by the Head of the Department, the student will be 
awarded grade and credits in Programme Specific Elective or Programme Specific 
Elective for Expanded Scope sub-categories. The following credits shall be awarded 
based on the duration of the online courses offered by NPTEL.  
  1. 4 weeks – 1 credit  
  2. 8 weeks – 2 credits  
  3. 12 weeks – 3 credits  
 
 For the online courses offered by the institution, terminal examination shall be 
conducted by the Controller of Examinations as proctored online examination. The 
following credits shall be awarded based on the duration of the online courses 
offered by our institution, subject to the approval of the respective head of the 
department.  
  1. 4 weeks – 1 credit  
  2. 8 weeks – 2 credits  
  3. 12 weeks – 3 credits  
 If a student does not successfully complete the registered online course or absent for 
the terminal examination, no supplementary examination will be conducted. Further, 
it will be considered as arrear and the student will not be eligible for First Class with 
Distinction. The registration of that course will be considered as cancelled. If a 
student wishes, he/she can re-register for the same course and successfully 
complete it as and when it is offered subsequently. 
 
 The maximum number of credits that can be earned from the online courses offered 
by the institution is limited to 3 and through NPTEL is also limited to 3. 
 
4.12   Research Practice  
 A student with minimum CGPA of 8.00 without history of arrear can register for the 
course on ‘Research Practice’. The outcome of the course will be a publication in 
SCI/ SCI-expanded/ SCOPUS indexed Journal/ conference in Science and 
Technology.  Number of Credits for this course is 3. A group of maximum two (2) 
students can register for this course at the beginning of the fifth semester of the 
programme and they are the first two authors. The student shall work under a faculty 
advisor who has published at least 3 papers in SCI/ SCI-expanded/ SCOPUS 
indexed journals. The faculty advisor is a third and corresponding author. The credits 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
can be earned by the student in subsequent semesters (Sixth and Seventh). When 
the student provides evidence of the publication of the research paper, through 
faculty advisor and Head of the Department, grade and credits will be awarded in the 
following semester. The grades will be awarded as per the details in Table 1.  
 
S.No Category of Journal Grade  
1 One Research Paper in SCI/SCI-Expanded Journal S 
2 Two Research Papers in SCOPUS indexed  Journals S 
3 One Research Paper in SCOPUS indexed  Journal A 
4 One Research Paper in SCOPUS indexed  Conference  B 
 
 If the student is not able to publish within seventh semester, the registration will be 
automatically cancelled and he/she has to meet the credit requirements for the 
elective category by registering necessary elective course in eighth semester, if 
required. Further, if a student has not registered for this research course in fifth 
semester but meets all the requirements for earning the credits in this course, the 
student will be allowed to replace his/her grade and credits earned from programme 
specific elective or programme specific elective for expanded scope with grade and 
credits earned from this research course. 
 
4.13 The medium of instruction, examinations and project report shall be in English. 
 
 5.0  DURATION OF THE PROGRAMMES   
 
5.1 The duration for the B.E. / B.Tech. degree programmes shall extend over a period of 
4 years (8 semesters) for the students admitted in the first semester but in any case 
not more than 7 years (14 semesters) and 3 years (6 semesters) for the students 
admitted in third semester (Lateral Entry students) and not more than 6 years (12) 
semesters.  
 
   5.2 Each semester normally consists of 90 working days, including Test and Examination 
Days. In any contingent situation, the number of working days per semester shall not 
be less than 65 days.  The Principal is given the discretionary powers to decide the 
number of working days. In such contingencies, the Principal shall ensure that every 
faculty member teaches the full content of the specified syllabus for the course being 
taught. 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
   5.3 The total duration for completion of the programme reckoned from the 
commencement of the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not 
exceed the maximum duration specified in Clause 5.1 irrespective of the period of 
Break of Study or prevention in order that the student may be eligible for the award of 
the degree. 
 
 5.4 For the purpose of regulations, the academic year will be divided into two Semesters, 
the odd semester normally spanning from June to November and the even semester 
from December to May. 
 
6.0 COURSE REGISTRATION  
 
6.1 Each student on regular admission shall register for all the courses prescribed in the 
curriculum in the student’s first year of study. 
6.2 A student has to earn the minimum number of total credits (160 Credits for Regular 
admission students and 120 Credits for Lateral Entry admission students), specified 
in the curriculum of the chosen programme of study in order to be eligible to obtain 
the degree. However, a student can earn more than the number of credits, if the 
student wants. In such case, the highest grades in the relevant category would be 
considered for CGPA calculation. 
6.3 From II semester onwards, a student has the option of registering for additional 
courses or dropping existing courses in the ‘Scheduling of Courses’ of the 
programme. Total number of credits of such courses cannot exceed 6. However, the 
maximum number of credits the student can register in a particular semester cannot 
exceed 26, excluding the courses for which the student has done reappearance 
registration. The credits for industry supported courses and online courses are also 
included in calculating the number of credits per semester. 
 
6.4 The registration for the courses, from second semester, will commence three days 
after the declaration of the examination results of preceding semester. The student 
shall register for the courses with the guidance of the student’s Tutor/Faculty Mentor. 
If the student wishes, the student may drop courses (vide clause 6.3) within five 
working days after the commencement of the concerned semester and complete the 
registration process. 
 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
6.5  No course shall be offered by a Department unless a minimum of 25 students 
register for that course. 
 
6.6  After registering for a course, a student shall attend the classes, satisfy the 
attendance requirements (vide clause 7.1 and 7.2.1), earn Continuous Assessment 
marks and appear for the End Semester Examinations, except for the arrear courses.  
 
6.7.  Reappearance Registration 
 
6.7.1 If a student fails in a theory or a Theory-cum-Practical course, the student shall do 
reappearance registration for that course in the subsequent semester by retaining the 
Continuous Assessment Marks already earned. 
 
6.7.2 If the theory or Theory-cum-Practical course, in which the student has failed, is an 
elective, the student may register for the same or any other elective in the 
subsequent semesters. 
 
6.7.3 The student who does not obtain bonafide certificate in any practical course/ project 
shall register for the same in the subsequent semester, when offered next, and 
repeat the course. In this case, the student shall attend the classes, satisfy the 
attendance requirements (vide clause 7), earn Continuous Assessment marks and 
appear for the End Semester Examinations. However, if a student does not appear 
for terminal examination after completing all the requirements of the practical course 
and obtaining the bonafide certificate, the student shall do reappearance registration 
for that course in the subsequent semester and attend end semester examination 
without repeating the course. 
 
6.7.4 If a student is not eligible to appear for end semester examination of a course due to 
lack of attendance, the student has to register for that course again, when offered 
next, attend the classes and fulfill the attendance requirements as per clause 7. If the 
course, in which the student has lack of attendance, is an elective, the student may 
register for the same or any other elective in the subsequent semesters. 
 
6.7.5 A student who has already appeared for a course in a semester and passed the 
examination is not entitled to reappear the same course for improvement of 
Grade/Marks 
 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
7. 0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE END SEMESTER EXAMINATION 
7.1    COURSES IN THE FIRST SEMESTER 
A student who has fulfilled the following conditions shall be deemed to have satisfied 
the requirements for completion of a semester  
a. He/she has earned not less than 75% of attendance in each course in first 
semester and not less than 75% of attendance on an average in all the courses in 
that semester put together, and 
b. His / her progress has been satisfactory and obtained bonafide certificate in the 
Record of all the Practical courses in the semester, and  
c. His / her conduct has been satisfactory. 
7.1.1 Students who have earned less than 65% attendance in any individual course of the 
semester are not deemed to have completed the first semester. Students who have 
earned less than 75% overall attendance of that semester are not deemed to have 
completed the first semester. 
7.1.2  A student who could secure at least 65% attendance (without considering any leave) 
in each course and overall attendance between 65% and 75% (without considering 
any leave) in the first semester shall be given exemption if he/she could secure more 
than 75% overall attendance by considering medical leave (hospitalization/accident/ 
specific illness) and On Duty Leave (ODL) for participation in the College / University 
/ State / National / International level Sports events (Vide clause 7.1.3) with prior 
approval from the Principal /competent authority. Such student shall apply for 
condonation to the Principal through the respective Head of the Department. After the 
approval from the principal, the student shall be permitted to appear for the current 
semester examinations by paying the prescribed fee. However, the students who 
have represented the college in NCC/NSS/Sports at University/ State/ National/ 
International level are exempted from the condonation fee. 
7.1.3The students who are consistently good in academics ONLY be considered for the grant 
of ODL under co-curricular / extra-curricular activities by the competent authorities. 
The following activities shall be considered for the award of ODL: 
 Sports and Games: TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zonal, Inter University, State 
level, National level and Open Tournaments. 
 NCC: Camps and expeditions, NSS camps 
 Cultural Programs at State, National and International level  
 Seminar / Symposia: Paper presentation / Quiz 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
 Leadership course organized by other organizations & Alumni Association 
activities, Association Activities, Placement Activities 
 Training Programs/internship at Industries and Higher Learning Institutions 
 Personal damages incurred during the extra-curricular activities. 
 The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to the Principal through the Head of 
the Department of the student by the staff-in-charge of the respective activities 
before completion of every activity.  
 The ODL sanctioned letters shall be submitted to the Department office.  The 
faculty-in-charge of the department office will check the eligibility for the award of 
attendance at the end of semester and the same may be submitted to the Head 
of the Department for approval. 
 
7.1.4  Those students who are not deemed to have completed the semester with reference 
to the conditions specified above shall undergo the semester again in all the courses 
in the respective semester during next academic year. 
 
7.2 Requirements for appearing for End Semester Examination for a course from 
Second Semester 
7.2.1 A student who has fulfilled the following conditions shall be deemed to be eligible to 
appear for the end semester examination, (except for the first semester of study on 
regular admission)  
 Ideally, every student is expected to attend all the classes and earn 100% 
attendance. Students who have earned not less than 75% attendance coursewise 
taking into account the number of periods required for that course as specified in 
the curriculum.  
 Students who have earned attendance less than 75% in a course will not be 
permitted to appear for End Semester Examination for that course. The student has 
to register and repeat that particular course in a subsequent semester when it is 
offered next. However, exemption may be given for the students who earned 
attendance between 65% and less than 75% in a particular course from the 
prescribed attendance requirement based on medical leave (hospitalization / 
accident / specific illness) and On Duty leave for participation in the College / 
University / State / National / International level Sports events (Vide clause 7.1.3) 
with prior approval from the Principal / competent authority. Such student shall be 
permitted to apply for condonation to the Principal through the respective Head of 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
the Department. After the approval from the principal, the student shall be permitted 
to appear for the end semester examination for that course by paying the 
prescribed fee to the Controller of Examinations of the college. However, the 
students who have represented the college in NCC/NSS/Sports are exempted from 
the condonation fee. 
 His / her progress has been satisfactory and obtained bonafide certificate in the 
Observation cum Record of all the Practical courses in the semester, and  
 His / her conduct has been satisfactory. 
7.2.2  Student who is permitted by the respective Head of the Department to carry out final 
semester project at industries/ organizations/higher learning institutions should 
submit the attendance certificate from the competent authority at every project review 
meetings and at the time of project report submission.  
7.3 A student shall be permitted to appear for the terminal examinations only if, 
a. he/she satisfies the attendance requirements   
b. the student’s conduct has been satisfactory  
c. he/she has paid the prescribed examination fees and registered for the 
examinations for all the courses of that semester within the due date specified by 
the Office of the Controller of Examinations. In second semester, the student 
should register all the courses of current semester and all the arrear courses in 
the first semester. If any student fails to register and pay the examination fees 
within the due date, he /she shall not be permitted to attend the end semester 
examinations. However, he/she will be permitted to continue their studies in the 
next higher semester, provided that the student should satisfy the requirements 
as stipulated in this clause of this regulations and to write the current semester 
courses and arrear courses if any, in the next supplementary examination as 
arrear courses on registration and payment of fees.  It will be counted as an 
attempt for the student. 
 
8. 0 FACULTY MENTOR 
To help the students in planning their courses of study and for general advice on the 
academic programme, the Head of the Department will attach a certain number of 
students (Maximum 25) to a faculty member of the Department. He /she shall 
function as Faculty Mentor for these students throughout their period of study.  The 
faculty mentor shall  
 Advise the students in registering and reappearance registering of courses 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
 Monitor their attendance, academic progress and discipline of the students 
 Counsel periodically or during the Faculty Mentor meeting scheduled in the class 
timetable. 
 Inform the students about the various facilities and activities available to enhance 
the student’s curricular and co-curricular activities. 
 If necessary, the faculty mentor may also discuss with or inform the parents about 
the progress of the students through Head of the Department or in Parent –
Teacher meeting. 
 
9. 0 ACADEMIC COMMITTEES 
9.1   CLASS COMMITTEE  
The objective of the Class Committee is to improve the teaching-learning process. 
The functions of the class committee include: 
 Resolving difficulties experienced by students in the classroom and in the 
laboratories. 
 Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules therein. 
 Discussing the progress of academic schedule and deviations if any. 
 Evaluating the performance of the students of the class after each test and finding 
the ways and means of improvement. 
 Every class in first year of study shall have a class committee consisting of faculty 
members who are teaching in that class, student representatives (cross section of 
students from boys and girls) and a chairperson who is a faculty not handling the 
course for the class.   
 From III semester onwards, Class committee comprises of all the faculty members 
who are handling courses in that particular semester and two student representatives 
from each course. A chairperson who is a faculty not handling course for that 
particular semester, nominated by the Head of the Department shall coordinate the 
activities of this committee. 
 The class committee shall be constituted by the Head of the Department/Chief Tutor 
on the first week of commencement of the semester. 
 The class committee shall meet three times in a semester as specified in the 
academic calendar. 
 The Principal may participate in any class committee of the institution.  
 During these meetings, the representative of the class shall meaningfully interact and 
express the opinions and suggestions of the other students of the class to improve 
the effectiveness of the teaching-learning process. 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
 The Chairperson is required to prepare the minutes of the meeting, signed by the 
members and submit the same to Head of the Department within five working days of 
the meeting. Head of the Department will in turn consolidate and forward the same to 
the Principal, within 10 working days of the meeting. 
 In each meeting, the action taken report of the previous meeting is to be presented 
by the Chairperson of the class committee. 
9.2 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE 
 
 The Performance Assessment Committee comprises of the Course Coordinators / 
Course faculty members and Programme Coordinator, nominated by the Head of 
Department. This committee shall meet to assess the attainment of Course 
Outcomes and Program Outcomes, progress and status of the students of the 
semester concerned at the beginning and end of the semesters. The committee 
can invite Faculty mentors and students as invitees. 
 
10.0      SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION  
10.1   Performance in each course of study shall be evaluated for a maximum of 100 marks 
based on one of the following:  
 Continuous assessment throughout the semester and a terminal examination at 
the end of the semester. The continuous assessment will carry 50 marks while the 
terminal examination will carry 50 marks. 
 Continuous Assessment only. 
 
10.2 The terminal examination (Theory, Theory-cum-Practical& Practical) of 3 hours 
duration shall be conducted by the Controller of Examinations between October and 
December during the Odd Semesters and between March and May during the Even 
semesters.  For Theory-cum-Practical courses, terminal examination will be 
conducted as either theory or practical examination as specified in the curriculum. All 
Practical examinations shall be conducted and evaluated at the Department itself on 
behalf of the Controller of Examinations. 
 
10.3 For all the practical courses, students shall obtain bonafide certificate for the 
Observation cum Record completed from the Faculty in-charges / Head of the 
Department on or before the day of the practical examination. Students who have not 
obtained the bonafide certificate are not permitted to appear for the terminal 
examination.    
 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
10.4 For the project works, students shall obtain bonafide certificate for the project work 
completed from the project Guide and Head of the Department, at the end of the 
semester. Students who have not obtained the bonafide certificate are not permitted 
to appear for the terminal examination. Students who are not able to complete the 
project work at the end of the semester can apply for extension to the Head of the 
Department, with the recommendation from the project guide for the period of 30 
Days. If the project report is not submitted even beyond the extended time, then the 
student(s) is not eligible to appear for Project Viva Voce examination. Further, if a 
student fails to secure a pass in project work or not eligible to appear for Viva Voce 
Examination, the student shall register and repeat the project work again in the 
subsequent semesters.  
 
10.5 The terminal examination for project work shall comprise of evaluation of the         
final report submitted by the project group (of not exceeding 4 students) by an 
external examiner. The project report shall carry 20 marks while the viva-voce 
examination shall carry 80 marks. Further, the performance of each student of the 
project group would be evaluated in a viva-voce examination conducted by a 
committee consisting of an external examiner appointed by the Head of the 
Department/the Controller of Examination, Head of the Department or faculty 
nominated by Head of the Department as Internal Examiner and Guide of the project 
group. 
 
10.6 Students are prohibited from entering into the Examination Hall / Laboratories       
with any book or portion of book, manuscript, or paper of any description or       
Communicating with or copying from each other or communicating with anyone   
outside the Examination Hall / Laboratories.  Programmable calculator, mobile phone 
shall not be permitted inside the Examination hall / Laboratories. However, any 
required codebooks and data sheets / books as specified in the question paper will 
be supplied inside the Examination hall / laboratories by the office of the Controller of 
Examinations. The students are warned that any form of Malpractice will be dealt with 
severely. The punishment may be canceling all the examinations registered by the 
student in that semester and debarring permanently from all the examinations and 
disciplinary action will be taken by the college authorities after conducting enquiry.  
 
10.7 Identity card/Hall ticket of the college must be produced at the time of terminal 
examination. Any student fails to produce Identity card / Hall ticket shall be levied a 
spot fine by the Chief superintendent/ Examiners. 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
10.8 A student can apply for reassessment of his/her semester examination answer paper 
in theory and Theory-cum-Practical courses (treated as theory examination in the end 
semester examination), within three working days from the declaration of results, on 
payment of a prescribed fee, as specified by the Controller of Examinations from time 
to time.  The Controller of Examination will arrange for going through the answer 
scripts by the students and to make appeals. The reassessment results will be 
published before the commencement of supplementary examinations. Reassessment 
is not permitted for practical courses, project work and industry supported courses. 
 
11.0 PROCEDURE FOR AWARDING MARKS FOR CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT  
11.1 Theory courses  
a. Two internal assessments will be conducted as a part of continuous assessment. 
Each internal assessment is to be conducted for 100 marks and will have to be 
distributed in two parts viz., Individual Assignment/Case study/Seminar/Mini project 
and Test with each having a weightage of 40% and 60% respectively. The tests shall 
be in written mode. The total internal assessment marks of 200 shall be converted 
into a maximum of 40 marks and rounded to the nearest integer. 
Assessment I Assessment I Total 
 
Internal 
Assessment 
Individual 
Assignment/ Case 
study/ Seminar/ 
Mini project 
Written 
Test 
Individual 
Assignment/Case 
study/ Seminar/ 
Mini project 
Written 
Test 
40 60 40 60 200 
 
11.2 Practical courses 
The maximum marks for Internal Assessment shall be 60 marks in case of practical 
courses. Every practical exercise / experiment shall be evaluated based on conduct 
of experiment / exercise and records to be maintained. There shall be at least one 
test. The criteria for arriving at the Internal Assessment marks of 60 are as follows: 
75 marks shall be awarded for successful completion of all the prescribed 
experiments done in the Laboratory and 25 marks for the test. The total mark shall be 
converted into a maximum of 60 marks and rounded to the nearest integer. 
 
* Internal assessment marks shall be converted into 60 marks 
  

B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
11.3  Theory-cum-Practical Courses:  
If there is a theory course with practical component, there shall be two assessments: 
the first assessment (maximum mark is 100) will be similar to assessment of theory 
course and the second assessment (maximum mark is 100) will be similar to 
assessment of laboratory course respectively. The weightage of first assessment 
shall be 40 % and the second assessment shall be 60%. 
The weighted average of these two assessments shall be converted into 50 
marks and rounded to the nearest integer. 
Assessment for 
Theory Component 
 
Assessment for  
Practical Component 
Total 
 
Internal 
Assessment Individual Assignment/ 
Case study/ Seminar/ Mini 
project 
Written 
Test 
Evaluation of 
Laboratory, 
Observation, Record 
Written Test 
40 60 75 25 200 
The weightage for Theory and Practical components is as follows: 
Credit Distribution Weightage for 
Theory 
Component 
Weightage for 
Practical 
Component 
Terminal 
Exam Type L T P C 
2 0 2 3 40 60 Theory 
1 0 4 3 60 40 Practical 
3 0 2 4 40 60 Theory 
1 0 2 2 40 60 Theory 
1 0 2 2 60 40 Practical 
2 0 4 4 40 60 Theory 
2 0 4 2 60 40 Practical 
 
11.4 Passing Requirements  
A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks prescribed for the course 
[Internal Assessment + End semester Examinations] with a minimum of 45% of the 
marks prescribed for the end semester Examination, shall be declared to have 
passed the course and acquired the relevant number of credits. This is applicable for 
both theory and laboratory courses (including project work). If a student fails to 
secure a pass in a theory course / laboratory course (except electives), the student 
shall register and appear only for the end semester examination in the subsequent 
semester. In such case, the internal assessment marks obtained by the student in the 
first appearance shall be retained and considered valid for all subsequent attempts till 
the student secures a pass. However, from the third attempt onwards if a student fails 
to obtain pass marks (IA + End Semester Examination) as per clause 14.1, then the 
student shall be declared to have passed the examination if he/she secures a 
minimum of 50% marks prescribed for the end-semester examinations alone. 
 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
11.5 Project work  
The Head of the Department shall constitute a review committee comprises of Head 
of the Department or Faculty member nominated by Head of the Department and two 
faculty members. There shall be three internal assessments (each 50 Marks), based 
on the rubrics, during the semester by the review committee. The student shall make 
presentation on the progress made by him / her before the committee. The total 
marks obtained in the three reviews shall be summed to 150 as internal assessment 
marks. There shall be a final end semester evaluation/viva voce for 300 marks, which 
is converted to 150 marks. A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks 
[Internal Assessment + End semester Evaluation] with a minimum of 45% of the 
marks prescribed for the end semester evaluation, shall be declared to have passed 
the course and acquired the relevant number of credits. 
11.5.1  A student may, however, in certain cases, be permitted to work on the project in an 
Industrial/Research Organization, on the recommendation of the Head of the 
Department, with the approval of the Head of the Institution. In such cases, the 
Project work shall be jointly supervised by a faculty member (Guide) of the 
department and an Engineer / Scientist from the Organization and the student shall 
be instructed to report the progress in periodically and to attend the project review 
committee meetings for evaluating the progress. These students will produce a 
certificate of attendance from the Industry/ Research Organization where the project 
is done.  
11.5.2   If the project report is not submitted on or before the specified deadline, an extension 
of time up to a maximum limit of 30 days may be given for the submission of project 
work with due approval obtained from the Head of the Department.  
 
11.6 Every faculty member is required to maintain an Attendance and Continuous 
Assessment Record which consists of attendance marked for each lecture or 
practical or project work classes, the tests & assignment marks and record of class 
works (topics covered) separately for each course.  
 
11.7   If any student appears as a Private Candidate for Supplementary Examinations, the 
continuous Assessment Marks earned by the student will be nullified and only the 
marks earned in the supplementary examination will be considered for passing the 
course as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations (Minimum Marks for Pass) 
 
  
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
12 0 ELIGIBILITY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE 
12.1 A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks (both continuous            
assessment and terminal examination marks put together) prescribed for the            
courses with a minimum of 50% marks prescribed for the end semester            
Terminal examination in theory courses, Theory-cum-Practical courses, practical 
courses (except for the Practical Courses which are evaluated based on Continuous 
Assessment only) and project work shall be declared to have passed the 
examination.  
 
12.2   If a student fails to secure a pass in a particular course, it is mandatory that he/she 
shall register for that course in the subsequent semester and attend the end 
semester examination. He/she should continue to register and appear for the 
examination till he /she secures a pass. If the theory or Theory-cum-Practical course, 
in which the student has failed, is an elective, the student may register for the same 
or any other elective in the subsequent semesters (vide 6.7.2). 
 
12.3  A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks in the courses which are 
evaluated using continuous assessment only, shall be declared to have passed the 
examination. If a student fails to secure a pass, it is mandatory that he/she shall 
register and repeat the course when it is offered next. He/she should continue to 
register and repeat the course till he/she secures a pass. 
 
12.4 Award of Grades  
The award of letter grades will be decided using relative grading principle. The 
performance of a student will be reported using letter grades, each carrying certain 
points as detailed below: 
 

B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
 A student is deemed to have passed and acquired the corresponding credits in a 
particular course if he/she obtains any one of the following grades: “O”, “A+”, “A”, 
“B+”,“B”, “C”. ‘SA’ denotes shortage of attendance (as per clause 7.3) and hence 
prevented from writing the end semester examinations. ‘SA’ will appear only in the 
result sheet.  
“RA” denotes that the student has failed to pass in that course.  
“W” denotes withdrawal from the exam for the particular course. 
 The grades RA and W will figure both in the Grade Sheet as well as in the Result 
Sheet. In both cases, the student has to appear for the End Semester Examinations as 
per the Regulations. If the grade RA is given to Theory Courses/ Laboratory Courses it 
is not required to satisfy the attendance requirements, but has to appear for the end 
semester examination and fulfil the norms specified in clause 7 to earn a pass in the 
respective courses. If the grade RA is given to EEC course (except Project Work), 
which are evaluated only through internal assessment, the student shall register for the 
course again in the subsequent semester, fulfil the norms as specified in clause 7 to 
earn pass in the course. However, attendance requirement need not be satisfied. 
 
13.0 ISSUE OF GRADE CARD 
 
13.1  The consolidated grade card will be issued, through the head of the department, when 
the student is declared to be eligible for the degree. The consolidated grade card will 
contain the following information: 
i. The courses for which credits are earned  
ii. Grade obtained in each course 
iii. Cumulative grade point average earned during the course 
iv. Month and year of successful appearance 
v. Course code and title 
13.2 Grade Card will be issued at the end of each semester examinations. The Grade 
Card will contain the following information: 
i. The credits registered and earned in the particular semester  
ii. Grade obtained in each course 
iii. Grade point average earned in the particular semester 
iv. Cumulative grade point average earned until the semester. 
v. Course code and title. 
  
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
14.0  ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE 
 
A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of the degree if he/she has 
satisfied the following  
a. A student seeking B.E./B.Tech. Degree shall be required to undergo the 
prescribed courses of study and evaluation in the college for the specified        
duration and to pass all the examinations prescribed therefore. 
b. He/ she should register for the courses prescribed in the curriculum of the 
respective degree programme, fulfill the requirement of credits in each category of 
credit distribution, pass in all mandatory courses in the curriculum and earn the 
total minimum number of credits (160 credits for regular admission students and 
120 credits for lateral entry admission students). 
c. The maximum time limit for the completion of the B.E./B.Tech. Degree 
programmes will be 8 (Eight) years from the date of admission to the first 
semester of the programme and 7 (Seven) years for the lateral entry students from 
the date of admission to the third semester of the programme. 
d. The student completes the NCC / NSS /Sports requirements. 
e. No disciplinary action pending against the student. 
 
15.0  CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED 
15.1. First class with Distinction 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having passed the 
examination in all registered courses in his / her first appearance (including industry 
supported courses and online courses), within FIVE years (FOUR Years for Lateral 
Entry students) including the authorized Break of Study of One Year, and securing a 
CGPA of not less than 8.50 shall be declared to have passed in First class with 
distinction and should not have been prevented from writing end semester 
examination due to lack of attendance in any of the courses.  
The authorized break of study (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal from the 
examination (vide clause 17.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
15.2. First Class 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having passed the 
examination in all the courses within FIVE years (FOUR years for Lateral Entry 
students) including the authorized Break of Study of One Year and securing a CGPA 
of not less than 7.00 shall be declared to have passed in First class. The authorized 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
break of study (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 
17.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
15.3. Second Class 
All other students (not covered in 15.1 and 15.2) who qualify for the award of degree 
having passed the examination in all the courses and fulfilling the requirements given 
in clause 14.0 above shall be declared to have passed in Second Class. 
15.4 A student who is absent for end semester examination in a course / project work after 
having registered for the same shall be considered to have appeared in that (except 
approved withdrawal from end semester examination) for the purpose of 
classification. 
 
16.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME 
 
16.1. A student is not normally permitted to break the study temporarily. However, if a 
student intends to temporarily discontinue the programme in the middle for valid 
reasons (such as accident or hospitalization due to prolonged ill health) and to rejoin 
the programme, he/she shall apply in advance to The Principal, through the Head of 
the Department stating the reasons, in any case, not later than the last lecture day, 
provided he/she fulfills the requirement in Clause 7.0.   
 
16.2   The student permitted to rejoin the programme after the break shall be governed by 
the rules and regulations in force at the time of rejoining. 
 
16.3    The duration specified for passing all the courses for the purpose of classification vide 
Clause 15.1 and 15.2 shall be increased by the period of such break of study 
permitted. 
 
16.4 The total period for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement of 
the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not exceed the maximum 
period specified in clause 14.0 irrespective of the period of break of study in order 
that he/she may be eligible for the award of the degree. 
 
16.5   If any student is detained for want of requisite attendance, progress and good 
conduct, the period spent in that semester shall not be considered as permitted 
‘Break of Study’. 
 
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
17. 0 PROVISION FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS 
 
17.1 A student will be permitted to withdraw in any one of the semesters except first 
semester (Third semester for lateral entry students) during the entire duration of the 
degree programme for valid and genuine reasons by making an application in the 
office of the Controller of Examinations through the respective Head of the 
Department, at least one day in advance of the last theory examination in that 
semester. When he /she appear subsequently, he / she have to appear for all the 
courses of that semester on registration and payment of fees. Subsequent 
appearance will not be counted as separate attempt. 
 
17.2 Those students who withdraw are eligible for the award of First Class and First Class 
with Distinction as per the requirement in this regard.  However, the student will not 
be considered for ranking. 
 
17.3 Withdrawal is permitted ONLY ONCE during the entire duration of the degree 
programme. 
 
17.4.  Withdrawal is not permitted to the student who has not satisfied the               
conditions prescribed in clause 7.0 as requirements for appearing in the end 
semester examination.  
 
17.5.  Withdrawal is permitted for the end semester examinations in the final semester, only 
if the period of study the student concerned does not exceed 5 years as per clause 
15.1. 
 
18.0 DISCIPLINE 
18.1    Every student is required to observe discipline and decorous behavior both inside and 
outside the college and not to indulge in any activity, which will tend to bring down the 
prestige of the college. The Principal shall constitute a disciplinary committee to 
enquire into acts of indiscipline and notify the institution about the disciplinary action 
recommended for approval. In case of any serious disciplinary action which leads to 
suspension or dismissal, then a special committee shall be constituted by the Head 
of the Institution for taking the final decision.  
 
18.2    If a student indulges in malpractice in any test/examinations, the student shall be 
liable for punitive action as prescribed by the College from time to time.  
B.E./B.Tech. Regulations_CBCS_2022-23 
 
 Approved in 63 rdAcademic Council Meeting on 25.06.2022 
 
19.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM 
The standing committee/Academic Council of the College reserves the right to revise 
or change or amend the regulations, the scheme of examinations, the curriculum and 
the syllabi from time to time if found necessary. 
20.0 SPECIAL CASES 
In the event of any clarification in the interpretation of the above rules and 
regulations, they shall be referred to the Standing Committee.  The Standing 
Committee will offer suitable interpretations/ clarifications /amendments required for 
special case on such references and get them ratified in the next meeting of the 
Academic Council. The decision of the Academic Council is final. 
***** 