Issue of Transcripts, Syllabus Copy and other Certificates | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC Issue of Transcripts, Syllabus Copy and other Certificates Breadcrumb Home > Examinations & COE > Issue of Transcripts, Syllabus Copy and Other Certificates Issue of Transcripts, Syllabus Copy and other Certificates Transcripts How to apply for Transcript? Candidates who wish to apply for transcripts may either i) apply In Person or ii) apply By Post Candidates who wish to apply for transcripts, fill all the details asked in this application link: https://forms.gle/y8CRi1FbjDZnvjW8A and submit the application copy to “The Registrar” to process the Transcript request. In Person Candidates can apply for transcripts by submitting the Photocopies of the Grade sheets to “The Registrar”. The Transcripts, after attestation, will be placed in sealed covers and will be handed over in person to the candidate. The fee for issuing transcript is Rs.750/- per set. (One set includes one copy of Grade sheets from First semester to Final semester). The transcripts of consolidated mark sheet alone will be issued at a fee of Rs.300/-. In the absence of The Registrar, for urgency COE will issue Transcripts. By Post Candidates can apply for transcripts by sending the request, along with the Photocopies of the Grade sheets, required number of sufficiently postage-stamped & addressed envelopes, and the Demand draft in favor of “The Principal, Thiagarajar College of Engineering” payable at Madurai, to “The Registrar”. The fee for issuing transcript is Rs.750/- per set. (One set includes one copy of Grade sheets from First semester to Final semester). The transcripts of consolidated mark sheet alone will be issued at a fee of Rs.300/-. In the absence of The Registrar, for urgency COE will issue Transcripts. The transcripts can also be sent directly to the Universities, provided the candidate requests and furnishes envelopes with necessary postage stamps affixed along with the addresses of the Universities to which the transcripts are to be sent. Syllabus Copy Candidates can get the copy of the syllabus book from COE office within 1 or 2 days, by giving a requisition letter stating the purpose and to pay a fee of  Rs.1000/-. Other Certificates For getting other Certificates like “Medium of Instruction”, “Conversion of CGPA to % of Marks, “Last Sitting” , “Tentative Completion of Degree or Issue of Degree certificate”, etc., candidates shall give a requisition letter  stating the purpose with all details to COE office and to pay a fee of Rs.500/-. All the fees mentioned above can be remitted in the extension counter of ICICI Bank/City Union Bank in the campus through the Bank chalan available in the Examinations Office/ Registrar office  or in the form of Demand Draft drawn in favour of “The Principal, Thiagarajar College of Engineering” payable at Madurai.   Cheques will not be accepted. Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact