THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)
MADURAI – 625015
REGULATIONS 2024
For
B.Des (Interior Design) DEGREE PROGRAMME
For the students admitted from the academic year 2024-2025 onwards
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)
MADURAI – 625015
REGULATIONS 2024
For
B.Des (Interior Design) DEGREE PROGRAMME
For the students admitted from the academic year 2024-2025 onwards
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)
MADURAI – 625015
REGULATIONS 2024
For
B.Des (Interior Design) DEGREE PROGRAMME
For the students admitted from the academic year 2024-2025 onwards
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
2
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI - 625015
(A Govt. Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
B.Des (Interior Design) DEGREE PROGRAMME
(CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM)
These Rules and Regulations are applicable to the candidates admitted from the Academic
year 2024–25 onwards
1.0 PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
i. “Programme” means B.Des (Interior Design) Degree Programme
ii. “Degree” means Under Graduate (UG) Degree that is B.Des degree.
iii. “Course” means a theory, theory cum studio, theory cum studio (skill based)
and studio subject that are normally studied in a semester, like Evolution of
Interior Design, Perception of Interior Spaces, etc.
iv. “University” means Anna University. Chennai.
2.0 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION
2.1 Students for admission to the first semester of the B.Des. Programme shall be required
to have a pass in Higher Secondary Examination (Academic 10+2) curriculum or its
equivalent examinations with 50% mark s in Physics, Che mistry & Mathematics and
also 50% marks in aggregate of the 10+2 level examination or 10+3 Diploma
Examination with Mathematics as compulsory subject with at least 50% marks in
aggregate.
2.2 The eligibility criteria such as marks, number of attempts and physical fitness shall be
as prescribed by Affiliating University and Directorate of Technical Education, Chennai,
from time to time.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
3
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
3.0 STRUCTURE OF THE PROGRAMME
3.1 Categorization of Courses
B.Des. Programme will have a curriculum with syllabi consisting of theory, theory cum
studio, theory cum studio (Skill Based), and studio courses with well -defined Program
Outcomes, and Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) as per Outcome Based
Education (OBE) and Conceive -Design-Implement-Operate (CDIO) fr amework. The
content of each course is designed based on the Course Outcomes (CO). The courses
of the programme are categorized as follows:
A. Compulsory Foundation Courses (CFC)
a. Interior Architecture and Design (IAD)
b. Engineering Science (ES)
B. Professional Core courses (PCC)
C. Elective Courses
a. Elective Foundation Courses (EFC) Elective
i. Interior Architecture and Design (IAD)
ii. Engineering Science (ES)
iii. Humanities, Management and Social Science (HMSS)
b. Programme Elective (PE)
i. Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope
1. Courses offered by the Respective Department
2. Industry Supported Course
3. Guided Study Course
4. Online Courses
ii. Programme Specific Elective for Skill Enhancement
1. Courses offered by the Respective Department
2. Industry Supported Course
3. Guided Study Course
4. Online Courses
iii. Interdisciplinary Elective
D. Mandatory Audit Courses prescribed by AICTE/UGC
● Compulsory Foundation Courses: Courses which provides basic foundation to the
core courses or supplement the core courses like Evolution of Interior Design ,
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
4
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
Perception of Interior Spacesetc
● Professional Core Courses: Courses that include core courses relevant to the
chosen specialization/branch like Foundational Design skills , Design of Interior
Spaces etc
● Elective Foundation Courses: Courses which lead to knowledge
enhancementselected from a pool of courses under specific streams like Interior
Architecture and Design, Engineering Science,Humanities, Management and Social
Sciences.
● Programme Electives:
o Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope: Courses which are
Supportive (specific or specialized) to the discipline of study.
o Programme Specific Elective for Skill Enhancement: Courses which are
advanced/courses with latest skills or technologies.
o Interdisciplinary Elective: Courses which are chosen from varied disciplines
like English, Architecture, Civil Engineering, Mechanical etc.
● Mandatory Audit Courses: Students shall register at least any one of the
Mandatory Audit courses as and when offered. Courses such as Constitution of
India, Essence of Indian Traditional Knowledge, Yoga, English for Research Paper
Writing, Value education, Stress Management and Personality Development through
Life Enlightenment Skills, etc, which are mandated by AICTE/UGC shall be
registered by the student as and when offered.
The recommended distribution of credits for each category is given in Table1.
Table1: Credit Distribution
S.No Category Credits
A Professional Core Courses (PCC) 98
B Compulsory Foundation Courses (CFC) 54
C Elective Foundation Courses (EFC) 8 - 12D Programme Elective (PE)
E Audit Courses (AC) (not to be included in CGPA) -
Mandatory
-
Minimum Credits to be earned for the award of the Degree 160
3.2 Personality and Character Development
All students shall register, on admission, in any one of the personality and character
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
5
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
development programmes (NCC/NSS) and undergo training and attend camps as
prescribed by the respective officers / coordinators. The training shall include classes
on hygiene and health awareness and also training in first aid.
● National Cadet Corps (NCC) will have a number of parades/camps
specified by the NCC officer.
● National Service Scheme (NSS) will have social service activities in and
around the college specified by the NSS coordinator
● Sports, games, drills and physical exercises specified by the Physical
Director While the training activities will normally be during weekends, the
camp will normally be during vacation period. Every student shall put in a
minimum attendance in the training and attend the camp.
3.3 Credit Assignment
Each course is assigned certain number of credits based on the following:
Table2 : Credit Assignment
Contact period per week CREDITS
1 hour Lecture Period 1
1 hour Tutorial Period 0
1 hour Studio/Practical Period 1
3.4 Number of Courses/ Credits per semester
Curriculum of a semester shall normally have a blend of theory courses, theory cum
studio courses, theory cum studio (skill based) and studio courses. Each course may
have credits assigned as per clause 3.3. However, the total number of courses per
semester shall not exceed 6. The maximum number of credits the student can register
in a particular semester cannot exceed 28 credits (excluding courses for which the
student has done reappearance registration (vide clause 5.7).
3.5 Educational Tour/Study Tour
Educational Tour as Study Tour or as Case study visits shall be part of the course and
conducted every year. They help to consolidate course contents by acquainting
students not only with professional practice but also the culture and context of a region.
At the end of the study tour, the students shall submit a report that gives an overall
understanding of the place(s) through different modes as found appropriate - sketches,
analysis, cognitive mapping, digital documentation, essays, etc.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
6
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
3.6 Industry supported Courses
3.6.1 Students can opt for one -credit courses and two credit courses offered by experts from
industry /research organizations and approved by the academic council. Students can
register for such courses in his/her fourth year. A student is a lso permitted to register
for these courses of other departments, provided the student has fulfilled the necessary
pre-requisites of the courses being offered and subject to the approval of both the
heads of the departments. However, a student can register for only one course in a
semester under Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope or Programme
Specific Elective for Skill Enhancement in Programme Elective category. These
courses are evaluated by the respective course coordinator of the programme. The
maximum number of credits that can be earned from industry supported courses is
limited to 4.
3.6.2 If a student does not successfully complete the registered industry supported one -
credit or two credit courses in a semester, the registration of that course will be
considered as canceled. Further, it will not be treated as arrear and no supplementary
examination will be conducted; alternatively, if he/she wishes, he/she can re -register
for the same course in the ensuing semesters and successfully complete it as and
when it is offered subsequently.
3.7 ` Guided Study Course
A student, who does not have history of arrear in the programme and CGPA greater
than 8.0, can study ONE course under Programme Specific Elective for Expanded
Scope or Programme Specific Elective for Skill Enhancement in Programme Elective
category after his/her fourth year of study, as a guided study course. One faculty
member approved by the Head of the School shall be responsible for the periodic
monitoring and evaluation of t he course. The student does not need to attend the
classes. However, the student has to appear for continuous assessment tests and
submit assignments to the respective faculty -in-charge assigned by the Head of the
School The assessment and evaluation for theory and theory cum studio courses is as
per vide clause 10.1 and 10.2 respectively.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
7
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
3.8 Online Courses
Students may be permitted to register for online courses (which are provided with a
certificate after evaluation of the performance), during the fourt h to sixth semester of
his/her study with the prior approval of the Department Committee nominated by the
Head of the School and approval from Academic Council. On successful completion of
the course, he/she has to submit the copy of the certificate to the Head of the School
for exemption from registering for an elective course. Based on the recommendation by
the team of faculty members nominated by the Head of the School, the student will be
awarded grade and credits maximum 2 per course (maximum of 4 cred its)in
Programme Specific Elective or Programme Specific Elective for Expanded Scope sub-
categories. The recommendation will be sent to The Controller of Examinations after
the approval by the Head of the School.
3.9 Interdisciplinary Elective
Interdisciplinary electives are courses offered by different departments and may be
opted by the student from his / her second year onwards. These courses do not have
any prerequisites and could be chosen as electives by students of any programme.
Students should opt for the courses offered from other departments only.
3.10 Medium of Instruction
The medium of instruction is English for all Courses, Examinations, Design Studios,
Seminar, Presentations and Project/Thesis reports.
4.0 DURATION OF THE PROGRAMMES
4.1 A student is ordinarily expected to complete the B. Des. Programme in 8 semesters (4
years) but in any case not more than 7 years (14 Semesters), irrespective of the period
of break of study in order that he/she may be eligible for the award of the degree
4.2 Each semester normally consists of 90 working days (including examination days). In
any contingent situation the number of working days per semester shall not be less
than 65 days. The Principal is given the discretionary powers to decide the number of
working days in such contingencies. The Principal shall ensure that every teacher
imparts instruction as per the number of periods specified in the syllabus and that the
teacher teaches the full content of the specified syllabus for the course being taught.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
8
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
4.3 For the purpose of regulations, the academic year will be divided into two semesters,
the odd semester normally spanning from June to November and the even semester
from December to May.
4.4 The total duration for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement
of the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not exceed the maximum
duration specified in clause 4.1 irrespective the period of break of study (vi de clause
16.0) or prevention in order that the student may be eligible for the award of the degree
(vide clause 14).
4.5 The courses in the curriculum of the odd semesters will be conducted only in odd
semesters and that of the even semesters only in even semesters.
5.0 COURSE REGISTRATION
5.1 Each student on regular admission shall register for all the courses prescribed in the
curriculum in the student’s first year of study.
5.2 A student has to earn the minimum number of 160 Credits as specified in the
curriculum of the programme of study in order to be eligible to obtain the degree.
However, a student can earn more than the number of credits, if he/she wishes. In
such cases, the highest grades in the relevant category would be considered for CGPA
calculation.
5.3 The registration for the courses, from the third semester, will commence three days
after the declaration of the examination results of the preceding semester. The student
shall register for the courses with the guidance of the student’s Faculty Mentor. If the
student wishes, the student may add or drop courses within five working days after the
commencement of the concerned semester and complete the registration process.
5.4 No course shall be offered by a Department unless a minimum of 15 students register
for that course.
5.5 After registering for a course, a student shall attend the classes, satisfy the attendance
Requirements (vide clause 6), earn Continuous Assessment marks and appear for the
Terminal examinations, except for the arrear courses.
5.6 The student shall register for the Professional Core courses like Professional Training ,
Interior Design Thesis, etc in the respective semesters only.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
9
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
5.7 Reappearance Registration
5.7.1 a) If a student fails in a Theory or a Theory-cum-Studio course, or a theory cum studio
(skill based), the student shall do reappearance registration for that course in the
subsequent semester by retaining the Continuous Assessment Marks already earned
in the next two attempts. For further attempts, only the marks earned in the
supplementary examination will be considered for passing the course as prescribed in
the Scheme of Examinations (Minimum Marks for Pass).
b) If a student is prevented from taking the Terminal examination of a course (theory /
theory cum studio / studio) due to lack of attendance, student has to register for that
course again, when offered next, attend the classes and fulfill the attend ance
requirements as per clause 6.
5.7.2 a) If a student fails in a  Programme Electives or Elective Foundation Courses, he/she
may register for the same course or any other course in the respective category in the
subsequent semesters. If a student registers for another course, he/she has to satisfy
all the requirements in Clauses 6 and 9.
b) If the course, in which student has lack of attendance, is a Programme  Elective or
an Elective Foundation Courses, students may register for the same or other
Programme Elective or Elective Foundation course respectively in the subsequent
semesters.
5.7.3 a) If a student is prevented to take the Terminal Examination in the form of viva-voce of
a Professional Core Course (Studio courses) due to lack of attendance, the stud ent
cannot register for the Professional Core Course of the subsequent semester until
he/she registers for the course again when offered next, attend the classes & fulfill the
attendance requirement as per clause 6.
b) If a student attends and fails in th e End semester examination of a studio course,
he/she shall attend the end semester examination again within 60 days from the date
of declaration of the results. The subsequent viva -voce examination will be considered
as reappearance with payment of exam f ee. In case, the student fails in the
subsequent viva-voce examination also, the student shall redo the course again, when
offered next.
5.7.4 If a student has submitted the studio project report but is absent in the end semester
examination of a studio co urse, the student is deemed to have failed. He/she shall
adhere to Clause 5.7.3 b above.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
10
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
5.7.5 The student who fails in Professional Training shall repeat the course again, when
offered   next.
5.7.6 A student who has already appeared for a course in a semester and passed the
examination is not entitled to reappearfor the same course for improvement of Grade /
Marks.
6.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE TERMINAL EXAMINATIONS OF A
COURSE
6.1 A student who has fulfilled the following conditions shall be deemed to be eligible to
appear for the Terminal Examination.
● Ideally, every student is expected to attend all the classes and earn 100% attendance.
Students who have earned not less than 75% atte ndance in all the courses taking into
account the number of periods required for that course as specified in the curriculum.
● Students who have earned attendance less than 75% will not be permitted to appear
for terminal examinations for that course. The st udent has to register and repeat that
particular course in a subsequent semester when it is offered next. However,
exemption may be given for the students who earned attendance between 65% and
less than 75% in a particular course from the prescribed attendance requirement based
on medical leave (hospitalization / accident / specific illness) and On Duty leave for
participation in the College / University / State / National / International level Sports
events (Vide clause 6.4) with prior approval from the Pr incipal / competent authority.
Such students shall be permitted to apply for condonation to the Principal through the
respective Head of the School. After the approval from the principal, the student shall
be permitted to appear for the terminal examinatio ns for that course by paying the
prescribed fee. However, the students who have represented the college in
NCC/NSS/Sports are exempted from the condonation fee.
● His/her conduct has been satisfactory.
6.2 Students who are permitted by the respective Head of the School to carry
outProfessional Training should submit the attendance certificate from the competent
authority at every project review meeting and at the time of project report submission.
6.3 A student shall be permitted to appear for the terminal examinations only if,
a. he/she satisfies the attendance requirements
b. the student’s conduct has been satisfactory
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
11
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
c. he/she has paid the examination fees and registered for the examinations for all
the courses of that semester by paying the prescribed examination fees within the
due date specified by the Office of the Controller of Examinations. If any student
fails to register and pay the examination fees within the due date, he /she shall not
be permitted to attend the terminal examinations. However, he/she will be
permitted to continue their studies in the next higher semester, provided that the
student should satisfy the requirements as stipulated in this clause 6.0 of this
regulations and to write the current semester courses and arrear courses if any, in
the next supplementary examination as arrear courses on registration and
payment of fees. It will be counted as an attempt for the student.
6.4 The students who are consistently good in academics ONLY are considered for the
grant of ODL under co -curricular / extra -curricular activities by the competent
authorities. The following activities shall be considered for the award of ODL:
● Sports and Games: TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zonal, Inter University, State level,
National level and Open Tournaments.
● NCC camps and expeditions, NSS camps
● Cultural Programs at State, National and International level
● Seminar/ Symposia: Paper Presentation/ Quiz
● Leadership course organized by other organizations & Alumni Association
activities, Association Activities, Placement Activities
● National / International level Co-curricular activities
● Training Programs/internship at Industries and Higher Learning Institutions
● Personal damages incurred during the Extra-curricular activities.
● The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to the Principal through the Head of
the School of the student by the staff -in-charge of the respective activities before
completion of every activity.
● The ODL sanctioned letters shall be submitted to the Department office. The
faculty- in-charge of the department office will check the eligibility for the award of
attendance at the end of semester and the same may be submitted to the Head of
the Schoolfor approval.
6.5 Those students who are not deemed to have completed the semester with reference to
the conditions specified above shall undergo the seme ster again in all the courses in
the respective semester during next academic year.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
12
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
7.0 FACULTY MENTOR
To help the students in planning their courses of study and for general advice on the
academic programme, the Head of the School will assign a certain number of students
(Maximum 20 to 25) to a faculty member of the Department. He /she shall function as
Faculty Advisor for these students throughout their period of study. The faculty advisor
shall
● Advise the students in registering and reappearance registering of courses
● Monitor their Attendance, academic progress and discipline of the students
● Counsel periodically or during the Faculty Advisor/Tutor/Proctor -ward meeting
scheduled in the class time table.
● Inform the students about the various facilities and activities available to enhance
the student’s curricular and co-curricular activities.
● If necessary, the faculty mentor may also discuss with or inform the parents about
the progress of the students through the Head of the School or in the Parent –
Teacher meeting.
8.0 ACADEMIC COMMITTEES
8.1 Class Committee
The objective of the Class Committee is to improve the teaching -learning process. The
Functions of the class committee include:
● Resolving difficulties experienced by students in the classroom and in the
laboratories.
● Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules
therein.
● Discussing the Progress ofacademic schedule and deviations if any.
● Evaluating the performance of the students of the class after each test and
finding the ways and means of improvement.
● From the first semester onwards, the Class committee comprises all the faculty
members who are handling courses in that particular semester and comprising a
minimum of five student representatives. A chairperson who is a faculty not
handling a course for that particular semester, nominated by the Head of
theSchool, shall coordinate the activities of this committee.
● The class committee shall be constituted by the Head of the School /Chief Tutor
on the first week of commencement of the semester.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
13
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
● The class committee shall meet three times in a semester as specified in the
academic calendar:
● The Principal/ Dean/ Head of the School may participate in any class committee
of the institution.
● During these meetings, the representative of the class shall meaningfully interact
and express the opinions and suggestions of the other students of the class to
improve the effectiveness of the teaching-learning process.
● The Chairperson is required to prepare the minutes of the meeting, signed by the
members and submit the same to the Headof theSchool within five working days
of the meeting. The Head of the School will in tur n consolidate and forward the
same to the Principal, within 10 working days of the meeting.
● In each meeting, the action taken report of the previous meeting is to be
presented by the Chairperson of the class committee.
8.2 Performance Assessment Committee
The Performance Assessment Committee comprises of the Head of the School /
Course Coordinators / Course faculty members and Programme Coordinator,
nominated by the Head Department. This committee shall meet to assess the
attainment of Course Outcomes and Program Outcomes, progress and status of the
students of the semester concerned at the beginning and end of the semesters. The
committee can invite Faculty mentors and students as invitees
9.0 SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION
9.1 The B.Des. Programme con sists of Theory Courses, Theory cum Studio Courses,
Theory Cum Studio (skill based), and Studio Courses. Performance in each course of
study shall be evaluated based on (i) Continuous Assessments throughout the
semester and (ii) Terminal Examination at the end of the semester.
9.1.1a. For Theory courses including Programme elective courses and Elective Foundation
Courses, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous Assessment is 40 and
the Terminal Examination will be conducted for 100 marks which will be reduced to 60
marks.
b. For Theory cum Studio Courses including Programme elective courses and
Elective Foundation Courses, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
14
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
Assessment is 50 and the Terminal Examination will be conducted for 100 marks
which will be reduced to 50 marks.
9.1.2 For Skill based Theory cum Studio Courses including Programme Elective courses
and Foundation Elective Courses, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for
Continuous Assessment is 50 and the Terminal Examination (viva voce) will be
conducted for 100 marks which will be reduced to 50 marks.
9.1.3 For Studio Courses like Foundational Design skills, Design of Interior Spaces, Interior
Design Thesis out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous Assessment is
60 and the TerminalViva Voce Examination will be conducted for 100 marks which will
be reduced to 40 marks.
9.1.4 For Studio Courses like Professional Training, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks
for Continuous Assessment are 50 and the Terminal Viva Voce Examination will be
conducted for 100 marks which will be reduced to 50 marks.
Table 3: Assessment Pattern
9.2 Students are prohibited from entering into the Examination Hall / Laboratories with any
book or portion of book, manuscript, or paper of any description or Communicating
with or copying from each other or communicating with anyone outside the
Examination Hall/ Laboratories. Programmable calculator, mobile phone shall not be
S.No Categorization of courses Continuous
Assessment
Terminal
Examinations/
Viva
Total
Marks
1. Theory Courses
40 60 100
2. Theory com Studio Courses
50 50 100
3. Theory cum Studio Courses
(Skill based) 50 50 (Viva) 100
4. Design Studio and
Interior Design Thesis (Studio
Courses)
60 40 (Viva) 100
5. Professional Training 50 50 (Viva) 100
6. Industry Supported Courses 50 50 100
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
15
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
permitted inside the Examination hall / Laboratories. However, any required
codebooks and data sheets / books as specified in the question paper will be supplied
inside the Examination h all / laboratories by theoffice of the Controller of
Examinations. The students are warned that any form of Malpractice will be dealt with
severely. The punishment may be canceling all the examinations registered by the
student in that semester and debarri ng permanently from all the examinations and
disciplinary action will be taken by the college authorities after conducting enquiry.
9.3 Identity card/ Hall ticket of the college must be produced at the time of terminal
examination. Any student fails to produce an Identity card / Hall ticket shall be levied a
spot fine by the Chief superintendent/ Examiners.
9.4 A student can apply for reassessment of his/her semester examination answer paper
in theory, within three working days from the declaration of results, on payment of a
prescribed fee, as specified by the Controller of Examinations from time to time. The
Controller of Examination will arrange for going through the answer scripts by the
students and to make appeals. The reassessment results will be published before the
commencement of supplementary examinations. Reassessment is not permitted for
Studio Course s, Theory cum Studio (Skill Based) Courses and Online/Industry
Supported Courses.
10.0 PROCEDURE FOR AWARDING MARKS FOR CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT
10.1 Assessment for Theory Courses
10.1.1 The internal assessment of Theory courses will be carried out in the f orm of two
assessments: written test and Assignments (Individual
assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini projects/site study/ field visit report / working
model / evaluation report / test report / drawings/construction yard exercises).
Each internal assessment is to be conducted for 100 marks and will have to be
distributed in two parts: Assignments and tests with each having a weightage of 40%
and 60%respectively.
a. Two internal tests each carrying 60 marks shall be conducted during the
semester for Duration of 2 hours. The tests shall be in written mode.
b. Two internal assignments each carrying 40 marks shall be conducted as a
part of continuous assessment.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
16
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
The total marks obtained in all assessments put together out of 200*, shall be
proportionately reduced for 40 marks and rounded to the nearest integer (This also
implies equal weightage to the two assessments).
Assessment
Test 1 (Written
Test)
Assessment
Test 2
(Written Test)
Individual
assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini
projects/site study/ field visit report /
working model / evaluation report /
test report / drawings/construction
yard exercises
Total
60 60 40 40 100%
*The weighted average shall be converted into 40 marks for internal Assessment.
10.1.2 Students will have regular classes on the assessment days of these tests. In case a
student misses the assessment due to medical reasons (hospitalization / accident / specific
illness) or due to participation in the College / University / State / National / International level
Sports events with prior permission from the Chairman, Sports Board, a Reassessment may
be given at the end of the semester after getting approval from the Head of the School by the
concerned course instructor.
10.2 Assessment for Theory cum Studio Courses
10.2.1 The internal assessment of Theory cum Studio courses will be carried out in the form of
two assessments: Written test and Assignments (Individual assignments /tutorials
/seminars /mini projects /site study / field visit report / working model / evaluation report
/ test report / drawings/construction yard exercises).
Each internal assessment is to be conducted for 100 marks and will have to be
distributed in two parts: Assignments and tests with each having a weightage of 60%
and 40% respectively.
a. Two internal tests each carrying 40 marks shall be conducted during the semester.
The testsshall be in written mode.
b. Two internal assignments each carrying 60 marks shall be conducted as a part of
continuousassessment.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
17
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
Assessment
Test 1 (Written
Test)
Assessment
Test 2
(Written Test)
Individual
assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini
projects/site study/ field visit report /
working model / evaluation report /
test report / drawings/construction
yard exercises
Total
40 40 60 60 100%
*The weighted average shall be converted into 50 marks and rounded to the nearest
integer for internal Assessment.
10.2.2 Students will have regular classes on the assessment days of these tests. The student
will abide as in clause 10.1.2
10.3 Assessment for Theory cum Studio Courses (Skill Based)
10.3.1. The internal assessment of Theory cum studio (Skill Based) courses will be carried out
in the form of two assessments. Each internal assessment is to be conducted for 100
marks in the form of assignments (Individual assignments /tutorials /seminars /mini
projects /site study/ field visit report / working model / evaluation report / test report /
drawings/construction yard exercises etc.) for a maximum of 100 marks. The total
marks obtained in the assessments will be conducted as internal viva voce.
Assessment Test 1
(Individual
assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini
projects/site study/ field visit report /
working model / evaluation report /
test report / drawings/construction
yard exercise)
Assessment Test 2
(Individual
assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini
projects/site study/ field visit report /
working model / evaluation report /
test report / drawings/construction
yard exercise)
Total
50 50 100%
*The weighted average shall be converted into 50 marks and rounded to the nearest
integer for internal Assessment.
10.3.2. For the Theory cum studio (Skill Based) courses Terminal Examination shall be
conducted in the form of a viva -voce examination at the end of the semester by an
internal and external examiner appointed by the Controller of Examination from a panel
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
18
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
recommended by the Head of the School.
10.4 Assessment for Studio Courses
The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Studio Courses like Foundational Design
Skills, Design of Interior spaces, etc will be carried out for 60 marks for the
performance of the candidate in the studio projects throughout the semester. The total
marks obtained in the continuous assessments put together shall be reduced to 60
marks and round ed to the nearest integer. The number of projects and evaluation
weightage for the studio projects shall be discussed and recommended by the School
Committee constituted by the Head of the School.
10.5 Assessment for Professional Training
10.5.1Every student shall undergo Professional Training in the VII Semester. The student shall
undergo Professional Training in architectur e /Interior design firmsin India only under
architects registered with the Council of Architecture, India with a minimum of 5 years
professional standing or with Interior Designers who have a long standing professional
practice of more than 5 years, with the approval of the Head of the School.
10.5.2 If the student wishes to undergo training outside India, it should be under a chief
designer/ architect registered with the Governing body for Architects of that Country
with a minimum of 5 years professional standing experience. This should be duly
approved by the Department Committee two weeks prior to the training period.
10.5.3Ideally every student is required to undertake the entire duration of Professional Training
in the VII semester in a single architecture /interior design firm . However, under
unforeseen circumstances, if the student wishes to change his/ her place of
Professional Training, student shall be allowed to do so only once with the prior
approval of the coordinator.
10.5.4The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Studio Courses like Professional Training
shall be carried out for 50 marks for the entire period of the Professional training during
the VII semester. The evaluations shall be in the form of Monthly Progress report, Work
diary, Portfolio, Site visits etc which will be evaluated by the Chief Designer or Principal
Architect / his or her Designee Architect/ Designer. The evaluation weightage for these
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
19
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
studio subjects shall be discussed and recommended by the Department Committee
constituted by the Head of the School.
10.5.5For the Professional Training, Terminal Examination shall be conducted in the form of
viva-voce examination at the end of the VII semester by an internal and external
examiners appointed by the Controller of Examination from a panel recommended by
the Head of the School.
10.6 Assessment for Interior Design Thesis
Every candidate shall submit a synopsis at the end of VII Semester to be approved by
the Department Committee constituted by the Head of the School. The thesis review
committee constituted by the Head of the School shall comprise of the Coordinator of
the Thesis, the Supervisor and One External members. The Thesis shall be evaluated
for 100 marks by the Thesis review committee through continuous assessment with a
minimum of 5 reviews (including one topic selection review which may be online and
will not be evaluated) throughout the semester. The total marks obtained in the four
assessments put together shall be reduced to 60 marks and rounded to the nearest
integer. The External Review members will be appointed by the Controller of
Examination from a panel recommended by the Head of the School. Terminal
Examination shall be conducted in the form of a viva -voce examination at the end of
the VIII semester by the External Examiners appointed by the Controller of
Examination from a panel recommended by the Head of the School.
10.7Revaluation is not permitted for Studio Courses; Skill Based Theory cum Studio Courses
and Industry Supported Courses.
11.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE
The Passing requirement for a student in a course is determined statistically based on
the analysis of the marks obtained both in Continuous Assessment and Terminal
Examinations put together.
11.1 Theory Courses
11.1.1 For Theory courses (including Programme Elective and Elective foundation courses) a
student who secures not less than 50% of tot al marks prescribed for the course
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
20
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
[Internal Assessment + Terminal Examinations] with a minimum of 45% of the marks
prescribed for the Terminal Examination, shall be declared to have passed the course
and acquired the relevant number of credits.
11.1.2 If a student who is absent or fails to secure a pass in a theory course (including elective
theory course) the student shall register and appear only for the Terminal examination
in the subsequent semester. In such cases, the internal assessment marks obtained by
the student in the first appearance shall be retained and considered valid for two
subsequent attempts till the student secures a pass. However, from the third attempt
onwards if a student fails to obtain pass marks (Internal Assessment + Terminal
Examination) as per clause 11.1.1, then the student shall be declared to have passed
the examination if he/she secures a minimum of 50% marks prescribed for the
Terminal examinations alone.
11.2 Theory cum Studio Courses
11.2.1 For Theory cum Studio courses a student who secures not less than 50% of total marks
prescribed for the course [Internal Assessment + Terminal Examinations] with a
minimum of 45% of the marks prescribed for the Terminal Examination, shall be
declared to have passed the course and acquired the relevant number of credits.
11.2.2 If a student who is absent or fails to secure a pass in a theory course (including elective
theory course) the student shall register and appear only for the Terminal examination
in the subsequent semester. In such cases, the internal assessment marks obtained by
the student in the first appearance shall be retained and considered valid for two
subsequent attempts till the student secures a pass. However, from the third attempt
onwards if a student fails to obtain pass marks (Internal Assessment + Terminal
Examination) as per clause 11.2.1, then the student shall be declared to have passed
the examination if he/she secures a minimum of 50% marks prescribed for the
Terminal examinations alone.
11.3 Theory cum Studio Courses (Skill Based)
11.3.1 Terminal Examination shall be conducted in the form of a viva -voce examination at the
end of the semester by an internal and external examiner appointed by the Controller
of Examination from a pan el recommended by the Head of the School for 100 Marks
which shall be reduced to 50 Marks.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
21
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
11.3.2 F or Theory cum Studio (Skill Based) courses a candidate shall be declared to have
passed the examination, if he / she secures minimum of 45 marks out of 100 i n the
Terminal Examination viva voce with a minimum aggregate of 50 marks out of 100 in
continuous assessment and Terminal Examination put together.
11.3.3 If a student fails to secure a pass in a theory cum studio course (Skill Based) the
student shall do reappearance registration for the Terminal Examination
11.3.4 A student who is absent or has failed in the Terminal Examinations viva -voce in any
Theory cum studio (Skill Based) courses is permitted to appear for supplementary
examination by retaining th e Continuous Assessment already earned in the next two
attempts.  For further attempts, only the marks earned in the supplementary
examination will be considered for passing the course as prescribed in the Scheme of
Examinations (Minimum Marks for Pass).
11.4 Studio Courses
11.4.1 For studio courses, a candidate shall be declared to have passed the examination if
he/she secured an aggregate of 50 marks out of 100 obtained in the Continuous
Assessment and Terminal Examination put together. The Terminal Examination will be
conducted as Viva-Voce for the portfolio submitted by the candidate.
11.4.2 If a student fails to secure a pass in examinatio ns of studio courses comprising
Foundational Design Skills and Interior Design Thesis, the student shall resubmit a
portfolio/report within 60 calendar days of publishing of the results. In case the 60th day
happens to be a public holiday, the next working day can be considered for the date of
submission. The resubmission of the portfolio/report and the subsequent viva -voce
examination will be considered as arrears with payment of exam fee.
11.4.3 In case, a student fails in the resubmission of the portfol io/report and subsequent viva-
voce examination, the student shall repeat when the course is offered next, attend
classes, secure continuous assessment marks and submit the portfolio/works/sheets
as in the case of a regular student as per vide clause 6 and 9.
11.4.4 If a student fails to secure a pass in Professional Training, the student shall repeat
when the course is offered next. There is no option to resubmit the portfolio and attend
a subsequent Viva Voce Examination for this course.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
22
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
12.0 Award of Grades
The award of letter grades will be decided using relative grading principle. The
performance of astudent will be reported using letter grades, each carrying certain
points as given in Table 4:
Table 4: Grade Classification
Letter Grade Grade Point (GP)
O (Outstanding) 10
A+ (Excellent) 9
A (Very Good) 8
B+ (Good) 7
B (Average) 6
C (Satisfactory) 5
RA (Re-appearance) 0
SA (Shortage of Attendance) 0
W (Withdrawal) 0
A student is deemed to have passed and acquired the corresponding credits in a
particular course if he/she obtains any one of the following grades: “O”, “A+”, “A”,
“B+”,“B”, “C”.
SA‟ denotes shortage of attendance (as per clause 6.1) and hence prevented f rom
writing the Terminal examination. „SA‟ will appear only in the result sheet.
“RA” denotes that the student has failed to pass in that course.
“W” denotes withdrawal from the exam for the particular course.
The grades RA and W will figure both in the Grade Sheet as well as in the Result
Sheet. In both cases, the student has to appear for the Terminal examination as per
the Regulations.
If the grade RA or W is given to Theory courses (including Elective Theor y Courses)
and Theory cum Studio (Skill Based) Courses, it is not required to re-attend the classes
(vide clause 6) but the student has to appear for the Terminal examination and fulfill the
norms specified in Clause 11 to earn a pass in the respective courses.
If the grade RA or W is given to Studio Courses, Foundational Design Skills , Interior
design Thesis, etc the procedure to be followed will be as per Clause 11.4.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
23
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
13.0 ISSUE GRADE CARD
13.1 The Consolidated Grade card will be issued, through the head of the School when the
student is declared to be eligible for the degree. The consolidated grade card will
contain the following information:
(i) The Courses For Which credits are earned
(ii) Grade Obtained Ineach course
(iii) Cumulative grade point average earned during the course
(iv) Month And Year Ofsuccessful appearance
(v) Course Code And Title
13.2 Grade Cards will be issued at the end of each semester examinations. The Grade Card
willcontain the following information:
(i) The Credits Registered And Earned In The Particular semester
(ii) Grade Obtained Ineach course
(iii) Grade point average earned in the particular semester
(iv) Cumulative grade point average earned until the semester.
(v) Course Code And Title
14.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE
A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of the B.Des. Degree provided
the student has satisfied the following
a. A student seeking B.Des degree shall be required to undergo the prescribed courses
of study and evaluation in the college for the specified duration and to pass all the
examinations prescribed therefore.
b. He/ she should register for all the courses prescribed in the curriculum of the
respective degree programme, fulfill the requirement of credits in each category of
credit distribution, pass in all mandatory cours es in the curriculum and earn the
minimum number of 160 credits.
c. The maximum time limit for the completion of the B. Des Degree programme is 7
(Seven) years f rom the date of admission to the first semester of the programm e,
irrespective of the period of break of study (vide clause 16), or prevention (vide
clause 6.1), in order that the student may be eligible for the award of the degree.
d. No Disciplinary Action Pending Against The Student
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
24
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
15.0 CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED
15.1 First class with Distinction
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having passed the
examination in all registered courses in his / her first appearance (including industry
supported courses), within FIVE years including the authorized Break of Study of One
Year, and securing a CGPA of not less than 8.50 shall be declared to have passed in
First class with distinction and should not have been prevented from writing Terminal
Examination due to lack of attendance i n any of the courses. The authorized break of
study (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 17.0) will not
be counted as an attempt.
15.2. First Class
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having pa ssed the
examination in all the courses within FIVE years including the authorized Break of
Study of One Year and securing a CGPA of not less than 6.50 shall be declared to
have passed in First class and should not have been prevented from writing Terminal
examination due to lack of attendance in any of the courses. The authorized break of
study (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 17.0) will not
be counted as an attempt.
15.3 Second Class
All other students (not covered in 15.1 and 15.2) who qualify for the award of degree
having passed the examination in all the courses and fulfilling the requirements given in
clause 14.0 above shall be declared to have passed in Second Class.
15.4 A student who is absent for Terminal Examination in a course/project work after having
registered for the same shall be considered to have appeared in that (except approved
withdrawal from Terminal Examination) for the purpose of classification.
16.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME
16.1. A student is not normally permitted to break the study temporarily. However, if a
student intends to temporarily discontinue the programme in the middle for valid
reasons (such as accident or hospitalization due to prolonged ill health) and to rejoin
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
the programme, he/she shall apply in advance to The Principal, through the Head of
the School stating the reasons, in any case, not later than the last lecture day, provided
he/she fulfills the requirement in Clause 6.0.
16.2 The student permitted to rejoin the programme after the break shall be governed by the
rules and regulations in force at the time of rejoining.
16.3 The total period for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement of
the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not exceed the maximum
period specified in clause 4.0 irrespective of the period of break of study in order that
he/she may be eligible for the award of the degree.
16.4 If any student is detained for want of requisite attendance, progress and good conduct,
the period spent in that semester shall not be considered as permitted ‘Break of Study’.
17.0 PROVISION FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS
17.1 A student will be permitted to withdraw in anyone of the semesters except first
semester during the entire duration of the degree programme for valid and genuine
reasons by making an application in the office of the Controller of Examinations
through the r espective Head of the School for withdrawal at least one day in advance
of the last theory examination in that semester. When he / she appears subsequently,
he / she has to appear for all the courses of that semester on registration and payment
of fees. Subsequent appearances will not be counted as separate attempts.
17.2 Those students who withdraw are eligible for the award of First Class and First Class
with Distinction as per the requirement in this regard. However he / she will not be
considered for ranking.
17.3 Withdrawal is permitted ONLY ONCE during the entire duration of the degree
programme.
17.4 Withdrawal is not permitted to the student who has not satisfied the conditions
prescribed in clause 6.0 as requirements for appearing in the Terminal Examination.
17.5 Withdrawal is permitted for the Terminal Examinations in the final semester, only if the
period of study the student concerned does not exceed 5 years as per clause 4.0.
B.Des Degree Programme – 2024-2025 onwards
26
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 30.04.2024 Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
18.0 DISCIPLINE
18.1 Every student is required to observe discipline and decorous behavior both inside and
outside the college and not to indulge in any activity, which will tend to bring down the
prestige of the college. The Principal shall constitute a disciplinary committee to
enquire into acts of indiscipline and notify the institution about the disciplinary action
recommended for approval. In case of any serious disciplinary action which leads to
suspension or dismissal, then a special committee shall be constituted by the Head of
the Institution for taking the final decision.
18.2 If a student indulges in malpractice in any test/Examinations, the student shall be liable
for punitive action as prescribed by the College from time to time.
19.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM
The standing committee/Academic Council of the College reserves the right to revise or
change or amend the regulations, the scheme of examinations, the curriculum and the
syllabi from time to time if found necessary.
20.0 SPECIAL CASES
In the event of any clarification in the interpretation of the above rules and regulations,
they shall be referred to the Standing Committee. The Standing Committee will offer
suitable interpretations/ clarifications /amendments required for special cases on such
references and get them ratified in the next meeting of the Academic Council. The
decision of the Academic Council is final.