M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
1                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI – 625 015 
(A Govt. Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)  
                                                                                                                             
RULES  AND  REGULATIONS 
 
 CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM 
 
M.E. Degree Programmes 
 
These rules and regulations are applicable to the candidates admitted from the 
academic year 2018-19 onwards 
  
1. 0 PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE 
 
 In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
a. “Programme” m eans Master of Engineering (M.E.) Post Graduate Degree 
Programme. 
 
b. “Specialization” means discipline of M.E.  Degree Programme, like 
Communication Systems, Power Systems Engineering, Production Engineering, 
Computer Science and Engineering, etc. 
 
c. “Course” means a theory or practical subject that is normally studied in a 
semester, like Precision Manufacturing, Power Electronics, Communication 
Engineering, etc. 
 
d. ‘University’ means Anna University, Chennai 
 
2.0 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION: 
 The   candidates   seeking   admission to the programme shall require satisfying the 
eligibility norms prescribed by the Anna University and Director of Technical 
Education, Chennai, from time to time. 
 
3.0 BRANCHES OF STUDY: 
   
  M.E. Degree 
 Structural Engineering 
 Infrastructure Engineering and Management 
 Environmental Engineering 
 Industrial Engineering 
 Manufacturing Engineering 
 Power System Engineering 
 Communication Systems 
 Wireless Technologies 
 Computer Science and Engineering 
 Control and Instrumentation 
 Computer Science and Information Security 
 Mechatronics 
  
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
2                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
4.0 STRUCTURE OF PROGRAMMES 
 4.1  Categorization of Courses  
Each programme shall have a curriculum comprising of Theory, Theory-cum-Practical 
and Practical courses with well defined Program Outcomes and Programme 
Educational Objectives (PEO) as per Outcome Based Education (OBE). The content 
of each course is designed based on the Course Outcomes  (CO).  The courses shall 
cover:  
A. Foundation Courses 
B. Programme Core Courses relevant to the chosen programme of study. 
C. Elective Courses  
a. Programme Electives  
b. Open Electives 
D. Common Core Course 
E. Mini Project and Dissertation 
F. Value Added Courses  
 
The recommended distribution of credits for each category is given Table 1. 
Table1: Credit Distribution 
S.No Category Credits 
A. Foundation Courses 3 - 6 
   B. Programme Core Courses 19 – 25 
C. Elective Courses 17 – 23 
 a.  Programme Elective 15 – 21 
 b.  Open Elective 2 – 6 
D. Common Core Course  2 
E. Mini Project and Dissertation 27 
F Value Added Courses (Not to be included in CGPA) – Mandatory 4 
 Minimum Credits to be earned for the award of the degree               68  
(from A to E) and 
4 (from F) 
 
4.2 In assigning the credits for the courses, 1 hour lecture/week, 1 hour tutorial/week,             
2 hours practical/week, 2 hours Dissertation work or seminar/week is equivalent to             
1 credit. 
 
4.3 The curriculum of each semester shall normally be a blend of Theory courses,    
Theory-Cum-Practical and practical courses. 
  
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
3                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
4.4       Dissertation 
The dissertation is a year long activity, to be carried out and evaluated in two phases 
namely Phase – I and Phase II. The dissertation topic should be selected / chosen to 
ensure the satisfaction of the urgent need to establish a direct link between 
education, national development and productivity and thus reduce the gap between 
the world of work and the world of study. The dissertation should have relevance to 
social needs of society, value addition to existing facilities in the institute, to industry 
need, Problems of national importance, research and development in various 
domains.  
 
4.5      Industry supported Courses:  
4.5.1 Students can opt for one -credit courses and two credit courses, offered by experts 
from industry/ research organizations and approved by academic council.   Students 
can register such courses as and when these courses are conducted by different 
departments. A student is also permitted to register for these courses of o ther 
departments, provided the student has fulfilled the necessary pre -requisites of the 
course being offered and subject to the approval of both the heads of departments. 
There is no limit to the number of one -credit or two credit courses a student can 
register during the programme of study. However, a student can register for only one 
course in a semester. These courses are evaluated by the respective course 
coordinator of the programme. The category for industry supported course is 
Programme Elective. The maximum number of credits that can be earned from 
industry supported courses is limited to 3.  
4.5.2   If a student who registers for industry supported one-credit or two credit courses 
does not successfully complete the course, the registration of that course will be 
considered as cancelled . Further, i t will not be treated as arrear and no 
supplementary examination will be conducted; alternatively, if he/she wishes, he/she 
can re -register for the same course in the ensuing semesters and successfully 
complete it as and when it is offered subsequently.  
 
4.6 Guided Study Course 
 A student who has CGPA greater than 8.0 may be permitted to credit utmost ONE 
guided study course from second semester under Programme elective courses. One 
faculty member approved by the Head of the Department shall be responsible for the 
periodic monitoring and evaluation of the course. The student does not need to 
attend the classes. However, the student has to appear for continuous assessment 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
4                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
tests and submit assignments to the respective faculty -in-charge assigned by the 
Head of the Department. 
 
4.7    Value Added Courses 
Students should earn 4 credits in Value Added Courses. T he credits earned through 
the Value Added Courses shall be over and above the  minimum credit requirement 
prescribed in the curriculum for the award of the degree  and grades will be not 
considered for CGPA calculation.  
 
4.8    Online Courses 
 Students may be permitted to register for online courses (which are provided with 
certificate after evaluation of the performance), during first to third semester of his/her 
study. On successful completion of the course, he/she has to submit the copy of th e 
certificate to the Head of the Department for exemption from registering for an 
elective course.  Based on the recommendation by the team of faculty members 
nominated by the Head of the Department, the student will be awarded grade and 
credits, maximum 3 , in Programme Elective category. The recommendation will be 
sent to The Controller of Examinations after the approval by the Head of the 
Department. The maximum number of credits that can be earned from industry 
supported courses is limited to 3. 
 
4.9 Students shall register for the Dissertation work after 2 semesters of his/her studies 
only.  
 
4.10 The medium of instruction, examinations and Dissertation report shall be in English. 
 
 5.0  DURATION OF THE PROGRAMMES   
 
  5.1 The minimum and maximum period for completion of the Programmes are 4 and 8 
semesters respectively. 
 
   5.2 Each semester normally consists of 90 working days  (including examination days) , 
including Test and Examination Days . In any contingent situation, the number of 
working days per semester shall not be less than 65 days.  The Principal is given the 
discretionary powers to decide the number of working days. In such contingencies, 
the Principal shall ensure that every faculty member teaches the full cont ent of the 
specified syllabus for the course being taught. 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
5                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
     5.3 The total duration for completion of the programme reckoned from the 
commencement of the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not 
exceed the maximum duration specified in  Clause 5.1 irrespective of the period of 
Break of Study or prevention in order that the student may be eligible for the award of 
the degree.  
 
 5.4 For the purpose of regulations, the academic year will be divided into two Semesters, 
the odd semester normally spanning from June to November and the even semester 
from December to May. 
 
6.0 COURSE REGISTRATION  
 
6.1   Each student, on admission shall be assigned to a Faculty Mentor (vide clause 8) 
who shall advice and counsel the student about the details of the academic 
programme and the  choice of courses considering the student’s academic 
background and career objectives 
6.2     A student has to earn minimum of 68 Credits in the specified curriculum of the 
chosen programme of study in order to be eligible to obtain the degree. However, a 
student can earn more than the number of credits, if he/she wishes. In such case, the 
highest grades in the relevant category would be considered for CGPA calculation.   
6.3    A student has the option of registering for additional courses or dropping existing 
courses in the ‘Scheduling of Courses’ of the programme. Total number of credits of 
such courses cannot exceed 6. However, the maximum number of credits the student 
can regis ter in a particular semester cannot exceed 26, excluding the courses for 
which the student has done reappearance registration.  The credits for industry 
supported courses , online courses and Value added courses are also included in 
calculating the number of credits per semester. 
 
6.4    The registration for the courses from II semester will commence three days after the 
declaration of the examination results of preceding semester.  The student shall 
register for the courses with the guidance of the student’s Faculty Mentor. If the 
student wishes, the student may drop courses (vide clause 6. 3) within five working 
days after the commencement of the concerned semester and complete the 
registration process.  
 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
6                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
6.5  No course shall be offered by a Department unless a minimum of 5 students register 
for that course. 
 
6.6    After registering for a course, a student shall attend the classes, satisfy the 
attendance Requirements (vide clause 7) , earn Continuous Assessme nt marks and 
appear for the End Semester Examinations, except for the arrear courses.   
 
6.7.  Reappearance Registration  
 
6.7.1 If a student fails in a theory or a Theory-cum-Practical course, the student shall do 
reappearance registration for that course in the subsequent semester by retaining the 
Continuous Assessment Marks already earned. 
  
6.7.2 If the theory  or Theory-cum-Practical course, in which the student has failed, is a n 
elective, the student may register for the same or any other elective in the 
subsequent semesters. 
 
6.7.3  The student who does not obtain bonafide certificate in any practical course/ 
Dissertation shall register for the same in the subsequent semester, when offered 
next, and repeat the course. In this case, the student shall attend the classes, satisfy 
the attendance requirements (vide clause 7), earn Continuous Assessment marks 
and appear for the End Semester Examinations. However, if a student does not 
appear for terminal examination after completing all the requirements of the practical 
course and obtaining the bonafide certificate, the student shall do reappearance 
registration for that course i n the subsequent semester and attend end semester 
examination without repeating the course. 
 
6.7.4    If a student is not eligible to appear for end semester examination of a course due to 
lack of  attendance, the student has to register for that course again, when offered 
next, attend the classes and fulfill the attendance requirements as per clause 7. If the 
course, in which the  student has lack of attendance, is a n elective, the student may 
register for the same or any other elective in the subsequent semesters. 
 
6.7.5  A student who has already appeared for a course in a semester and passed the 
examination is not entitled to reappear the same course for improvement of 
Grade/Marks 
 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
7                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
7. 0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE END SEMESTER EXAMINATION  
7.1   A student who has fulfilled the following conditions shall be deemed to be eligible to 
appear for the end semester examination  
 Ideally, every student is expected to attend all the classes and earn 100% 
attendance. Students who have earned not less than 75% attendance in each 
course taking into account the number of periods required for that course as 
specified in the curriculum.  
 Students who have earned attendance less than 75% in a course will not be 
permitted to appear for End Semester Examination for that course. The student 
has to register and repeat that particular course in a subsequent semester when 
it is offered next. However, exemption may be given for the students who earned 
attendance between 65% and less than 75% in a particular course from the 
prescribed attendance requirement based on medical leave (hospitalization / 
accident / specific illness) and On Duty leave for participation in the College / 
University / State / National / International level Sports events (Vide clause 7.1.3) 
with prior approval from the Principal / competent authority. Such student shall be 
permitted to apply for condonation to the Principal through the respective Head of 
the Department. After the approval from the principal, the student shall be 
permitted to appear for the end semester examination for that course by paying 
the prescribed fee to the Controller of Examinations of the college. Howe ver, the 
students who have represented the college in at University/ State /National / 
International level are exempted from the condonation fee. 
 The student’s conduct has been satisfactory  
 The student has paid the prescribed examination fees and register ed for the 
examinations for all the enrolled courses of that semester within the due date 
specified by the Office of the Controller of Examinations. If any student fails to 
register and pay the examination fees within the due date, he /she shall not be 
permitted to attend the end semester examinations. However, he/she will be 
permitted to continue their studies in the next higher semester, provided that the 
student should satisfy the requirements as stipulated in this clause of this 
regulations and to write  the current semester courses and arrear courses if any, 
in the next supplementary examination as arrear courses on registration and 
payment of fees.  It will be counted as an attempt for the student. 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
8                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
7.2     The students who are consistently good in academics ONLY be considered for the 
grant of ODL under co -curricular / extra -curricular activities by the competent 
authorities. The following activities shall be considered for the award of ODL: 
 Sports and Games:  TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zonal, Inter University, State 
level, National level, international level and Open Tournaments. 
 Cultural Programs at State, National and International level  
 Seminar / Symposia: Paper presentation / Quiz 
 Leadership course org anized by other organizations & Alumni Association 
activities, Association Activities, Placement Activities 
 Training Programs/internship at Industries and Higher Learning Institutions 
 Personal damages incurred during the extra-curricular activities. 
 The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to the Principal through the Head of 
the Department of the student by the staff -in-charge of the respective activities 
before completion of every activity.  
 The ODL sanctioned letters shall be submitted to the Depart ment office.  The 
faculty-in-charge of the department office will check the eligibility for the award of 
attendance at the end of semester and the same may be submitted to the Head 
of the Department for approval. 
7.3  Student who is permitted by the respec tive Head of the Department to carry out f inal 
semester Dissertation at industries/ organizations/higher learning institutions should 
submit the attendance certificate from the competent authority at every Dissertation 
review meetings and at the time of Dissertation report submission.  
 
8. 0 FACULTY MENTOR  
To help the students in planning their courses of study and for general advice on the 
academic programme, the Head of the Department will attach the students to a 
faculty member of the Department. He /she shall function as Faculty Mentor for these 
students throughout their period of study.  The faculty mentor shall  
 Advise the students in registering and reappearance registering of courses 
 Monitor their attendance, academic progress and discipline of the students 
 Counsel periodically or during the Faculty Mentor meeting scheduled in the class 
time table. 
 Inform the students about the various facilities and activities available to enhance 
the student’s curricular and co-curricular activities. 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
9                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
 If necessary, the faculty mentor may also discuss with or inform the parents about 
the progress of the students through Head of the Department or in Parent –
Teacher meeting. 
 
9. 0 ACADEMIC COMMITTEES 
 
9.1   CLASS COMMITTEE  
The objective of the Class Committee is to improve the teaching -learning process. 
The functions of the class committee include: 
 Resolving difficulties experienced by students in the classroom and in the 
laboratories.                                                                                      
 Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules therein. 
 Discussing the progress of academic schedule and deviations if any. 
 Evaluating the performance of the students of the class after each test and finding 
the ways and means of improvement. 
 Class committee comprises of all the faculty members who are handling courses in 
that particular semester and two student representatives from each course. A 
chairperson w ho is a faculty not handling course for that particular semester, 
nominated by the Head of the Department shall coordinate the activities of this 
committee. 
 The class committee shall be constituted by the Head of the Department/Chief Tutor 
on the first week of commencement of the semester. 
 The class committee shall  meet three times in a semester as specified in the 
academic calendar. 
 The Principal may participate in any class committee of the institution.  
 During these meetings, the representative of the class shall meaningfully interact and 
express the opinions and suggestions of the other students of the class to improve 
the effectiveness of the teaching-learning process. 
 The Chairperson is required to prepare the minutes of the meeting, signed by the 
members and submit the same to Head of the Department within five working days of 
the meeting. Head of the Department will in turn consolidate and forward the same to 
the Principal, within 10 working days of the meeting. 
 In each meeting, the action taken rep ort of the previous meeting is to be presented 
by the Chairperson of the class committee. 
  
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
10                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
9.2  PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE 
 
 The Performance Assessment Committee comprises of the Course Coordinators / 
Course faculty members and Programme Coordinator, nominated by the Head of 
Department. This committee shall meet to assess the attainment of Course 
Outcomes and Program Outcomes, progress and status of the students of the 
semester concerned at the beginning and end of the semesters . The committee 
can invite Faculty mentors and students as invitees. 
 
10.0      SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION  
10.1   Performance in each course of study shall be evaluated for a maximum of 100 marks 
based on one of the following:  
 Continuous assessment throughout the semester and a terminal examination at 
the end of the semester. The continuous assessment will carry 50 marks while the 
terminal examination will carry 50 marks.  
 Continuous Assessment only. 
 
10.2   The terminal examination (Theory, Theory-cum-Practical & Practical) of 3 hours 
duration shall be conducted by the Controller of Examinations between October and 
December during the Odd Semesters and between March and May during the Even 
semesters. For Theory-cum-Practical courses, terminal examination will be 
conducted as either theory or practical examination as specified in the curriculum.  All 
Practical examinations shall be conducted and evaluated at the Department itself on 
behalf of the Controller of Examinations. 
 
10.3  For all the practical courses, stud ents shall obtain bonafide certificate for the Record 
completed from the Faculty in-charges / Head of the Department on or before the day 
of the practical examination. Students who have not obtained the bonafide certificate 
are not permitted to appear for the terminal examination.    
   
10.4  For the Dissertation, students shall obtain bonafide certificate for the Dissertation 
work completed from the Dissertation Guide and Head of the Department, at the end 
of the semester. Students who have not obtained the bonafide certificate are not 
permitted to appear for the terminal examination. Students who are not able to 
complete the Dissertation work at the end of the semester can apply for extension to 
the Head of the Department, with the recommendation from the Dissertation guide for 
the period of maximum 2 months.  If the Dissertation report is not submitted even 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
11                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
beyond the extended time, then the student(s) is not eligible to  appear for 
Dissertation Viva Voce examination. Further, if a student fails to secure a pass in 
Dissertation work or not eligible to appear for Viva Voce Examination, the student 
shall register and repeat the Dissertation work again in the subsequent semester.  
 
10.5  The terminal examination for Dissertation work shall comprise of evaluation of the         
final report by an external examiner. The Dissertation report shall carry 20 marks 
while the viva-voce examination shall carry 80 marks. Further, the performance of the 
student would be evaluated in a viva -voce examination conducted by a committee 
consisting of an external examiner appointed by the Head of the Department/the 
Controller of Examination, Head of the Department or facu lty nominated by Head of 
the Department as Internal Examiner and Guide. 
 
10.6  Students are prohibited from entering into the Examination Hall / Laboratories       
with any book or portion of book, manuscript, or paper of any description or       
Communicating with or copying from each other or communicating with anyone   
outside the Examination Hall / Laboratories.  Programmable calculator, mobile phone 
shall not be permitted inside the Examination hall / Laboratories. However, any 
required codebooks and data sheets / books  as specified in the question paper  will 
be supplied inside the Examination hall / laboratories by the office of the Controller of 
Examinations. The students are warned that any form of Malpractice will be dealt with 
severely. The punishment may be canceling all the examinations registered by the 
student in that semester and debarring permanently from all the examinations and 
disciplinary action will be taken by the college authorities after conducting enquiry.  
 
10.7  Identity ca rd /Hall ticket of the college must be produced at the time of terminal 
examination. Any student fails to produce Identity card /Hall ticket shall be levied a 
spot fine by the Chief superintendent/ Examiners. 
 
10.8 A student can apply for reassessment of his/her semester examination answer paper 
in theory and Theory-cum-Practical courses (treated as theory examination in the end 
semester examination), within three working days from the declaration of results, on 
payment of a prescribed fee, as specified by the Controller of Examinations from time 
to time.  The Controller of Examination will arrange for going through the answer 
scripts by the students and to make appeals. T he reassessment results will be 
published before the commencement of supplementary examinations. Reassessment 
is not permitted for practical courses, project work and industry supported courses. 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
12                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
11.0 PROCEDURE FOR AWARDING MARKS FOR CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT 
11.1  Theory courses 
a. The award of marks for continuous assessment shall be norma lly based on three 
tests and three interim assessment tasks . The apportioning of marks shall be as 
follows: 
i) 30 marks for tests 
ii) 20 marks for Interim Assessment 
However, the assessment pattern for awarding the continuous assessment marks 
may be designed by the course designers based on the nature of the course and 
is to be approved by the Academic Council.  
b. The first and second Continuous Assessment Tests will be normally conducted at 
the mid and end of the semester respectively. Subsequently, the third Continuous 
Assessment Test will be conducted as improvement/re -test covering full syllabus. 
Each test carries maximum of 50 marks. Among the three tests, the bes t two test 
marks will be considered for the award of maximum of 30 marks in test component 
of theory courses.  
c. Both test and interim assessment marks put together is 50 marks maximum and 
rounded to nearest integer if necessary. 
e. If a student fails in a theory course, the Continuous Assessment Marks already 
earned will be retained for subsequent reappearances. 
 
11.2 Practical courses 
The continuous assessment mark will be awarded as follows: 
Description Marks 
Observation-cum-Record in regular class works 30 
Test  (before last lecture day) 20 
Total Marks 50 
 
However, the assessment pattern for awarding the continuous assessment marks 
may be designed by the course designers based on the nature of the course and is to 
be approved by the Academic Council. If a student has not obtained bonafide 
certificate in a Practical course, the continuous assessment marks the student has 
earned is no longer valid . He/she shall register for the same in the subsequent 
semester, when offered next, and repeat the laboratory course again. 
  
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
13                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
11.3    Theory-cum-Practical Courses:  
The first and second Continuous Assessment Tests will be normally conducted at the 
mid and end of the semester respectively. Subsequently, the third Continuous 
Assessment Test will be conducted as improvement/re -test covering full syllabus. 
Each test carri es maximum of 50 marks. Among the three tests, the best two test 
marks will be considered for the award of maximum of 20 marks in theory component 
of Theory-cum-Practical course. A test will be conducted for 20 marks in practical 
component. Average mark awarded for viva – voce, conduct of experiments, 
observation & results, record work in regular class works shall be reduced to 10 
marks. The sum of these 50 Marks would be rounded to the nearest integer.  
However, the assessment pattern for aw arding the continuous assessment marks 
may be designed by the course designers based on the nature of the course and is to 
be approved by the Academic Council. 
 
If a student fails in a theory and practical course, the Continuous Assessment Marks 
already earned will be retained for subsequent reappearances. 
 
11.4 Dissertation  
The Head of the Department shall constitute a review committee comprises of Head 
of the Department or Faculty member nominated by Head of the Department and two 
faculty members. There shall be th ree assessments (each 50 Marks), based on the 
rubrics, during the semester by the review committee. The student shall make 
presentation on the progress made by him / her before the committee. The total 
marks obtained in the three reviews shall be averaged and rounded off to the nearest 
integer to 50 marks. 
11.4.1  A student may, however, in certain cases, be permitted to work on the Dissertation in 
an Industrial/Research Organization, on the recommendation of the Head of the 
Department, with the approval of the Principal. In such cases, the Dissertation work 
shall be jointly supervised by a faculty member (Guide) of the department and an 
Engineer / Scientist from the Organization and the student shall be instructed to 
report the progress in period ically and to attend the Dissertation review committee 
meetings for evaluating the progress. These students will produce a certificate of 
attendance from the Industry/ Research Organization where the Dissertation is done.  
11.4.2   If the Dissertation report is not submitted on or before the specified deadline, an 
extension of time up to a maximum limit of 30 days may be given for the submission 
of Dissertation work with due approval obtained from the Head of the Department.  
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
14                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
11.5 Every faculty member is required to maintain an Attendance and Continuous 
Assessment Record which consists of attendance marked for each lecture or 
practical or Dissertation work classes, the tests & assignment marks and record of 
class works (topics covered) separately for each course.   
 
11.6   If any student appears as a Private Candidate for Supplementary Examinations, the 
continuous Assessment Marks earned by the student will be nullified and only the 
marks earned in the supplementary examination will be considered for passing the 
course as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations (Minimum Marks for Pass) 
 
12 0  ELIGIBILITY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE 
12.1  A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks (both continuous            
assessment and terminal examination marks put together) p rescribed for the            
courses with a minimum of 50% marks prescribed for the end semester            
Terminal examination in theory courses, Theory-cum-Practical courses, practical 
courses (except for the Practical Courses which are evaluated based on Continuous 
Assessment only) and Dissertation work shall be declared to have passed the 
examination.  
 
12.2   If a student fails to secure a pass in a particular course, it is mandatory that he/she 
shall register for that course in the subseque nt semester and attend the end 
semester examination.  He/she should continue to register and appear for the 
examination till he /she secures a pass. If the theory or Theory-cum-Practical course, 
in which the student has failed, is an elective, the student may  register for the same 
or any other elective in the subsequent semesters 
 
12.3   A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks in the courses which are 
evaluated using continuous assessment only, shall be declared to have passed the 
examination. If a student fails to secure a pass, it is mandatory that he/she shall 
register and repeat the course when it is offered next. H e/she should continue to 
register and repeat the course till he/she secures a pass.   
  
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
15                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
12.4 Award of Grades  
Range of Total Marks (TM) 
(Continuous assessment +Terminal Examination) 
Letter Grade Grade Point 
(GP) 
10090  TM  S 10 
9080  TM  A 9 
8070  TM  B 8 
7060  TM  C 7 
6050  TM  D 6 
500  TM  U 0 
Non-completion of a semester(Repeat course) I 0 
Withdrawal from terminal examination W 0 
Absent AA 0 



 N
i
i
N
i
ii
C
GPC
GPA
1
1  
N is the number of courses registered in a particular semester (except value added 
courses),  iGP  is the grade point obtained in thi course and iC is the number of 
credits assigned to thi course. Cumulative GPA (CGPA) will be calculated when the 
student is declared to be eligible for the award of the degree. CGPA calculation is 
based on all the courses considered (vide clause 6.2) for the award of the degree.   
 
13.0 ISSUE OF GRADE CARD 
 
13.1   The consolidated grade card will be issued, through the head of the department, when 
the student is declared to be eligible for the degree. The consolidated grade card will 
contain the following information: 
i. The courses for which credits are earned  
ii. Grade obtained in each course 
iii. Cumulative grade point average earned during the course 
iv. Month and year of successful appearance 
v. Course code and title 
13.2 Grade Card will be issued at the en d of each semester examinations. The Grade 
Card will contain the following information: 
i. The credits registered and earned in the particular semester  
ii. Grade obtained in each course 
iii. Grade point average earned in the particular semester 
iv. Cumulative grade point average earned until the semester. 
v. Course code and title 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
16                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
14.0  ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE 
 
A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of the degree if he/she has 
satisfied the following  
a. A student seeking M.E degree shall be required to undergo the  prescribed 
courses of study and evaluation in the college for the specified duration and to 
pass all the examinations prescribed therefore. 
b. He/ she should register for all the courses prescribed in the curriculum of the 
respective degree programme, fulfill the requirement of credits in each category of 
credit distribution, pass in all mandatory courses in the curriculum  and earn the 
minimum number of 68 credits  
c. The maximum time limit for the completion of the M.E Degree programmes will be 
4 (Four) years from the date of admission to the first semester of the programme  
d. The student completes the NCC / NSS /Sports requirements. 
e. No disciplinary action pending against the student. 
 
15.0  CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED 
15.1. First class with Distinction 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide cla use 14.0) having passed the 
examination in all registered courses in his / her first appearance  (including industry 
supported courses), within THREE years including the authorized Break of Study of 
One Year , and securing a CGPA of not less than 8. 50 shall be declared to have 
passed in First class with distinction and should not have been prevented from writing 
end semester examination due to lack of attendance in any of the courses.  
The a uthorized break of study (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal from the 
examination (vide clause 17.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
15.2. First Class 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having passed the 
examination in all the courses within THREE years including the authorized Break of 
Study of One Year and securing a CGPA of not less than 7.00 shall be declared to 
have passed in First class. The authorized break of study (vide clause 16.0) and 
withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 17.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
15.3. Second Class 
All other students (not covered in 15.1 and 15.2) who qualify for the award of degree 
having passed the examination in all the courses and fulfilling the requirements given 
in clause 14.0 above shall be declared to have passed in Second Class. 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
17                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
15.4 A student who is absent for end semester examination in a course /  Dissertation  
work after having registered for the same shall be considered to have appeared in 
that (except approved withdrawal from end semester examination) for the purpose of 
classification. 
 
16.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME 
16.1. A student is not normally permitted to break the study temporarily. However, if a 
student intends to temporarily discontinue the programme in the middle for valid 
reasons (such as accident or hospitalization due to prolonged ill health) and to rejoin 
the programme, he/she shall apply in advance to The Principal, through the Head of 
the Department stating the reasons, in any case, not later than the last lecture day, 
provided he/she fulfills the requirement in Clause 7.0.    
 
16.2   The student permitted to rejoin the programme after the break shall be governed by 
the rules and regulations in force at the time of rejoining. 
 
16.3    The duration specified for passing all the courses for the purpose of classification vide 
Clause 15.1 and 15.2 shall be increased by the period of such break of study 
permitted. 
 
16.4    The total period for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement 
of the  first semester to which the student was admitted shall not exceed the 
maximum period specified in clause 14.0 irrespective of the  period of break of study 
in order that he/she may be eligible for the award of the degree. 
 
16.5   If any student is detained for want of requisite attendance, progress and good 
conduct, the period spent in that semester shall not be considered as permitted 
‘Break of Study’. 
 
17. 0 PROVISION FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS 
 
17.1  A student will be permitted to withdraw in any one of the semesters except first 
semester during the entire duration of the degree programme for valid and genuine 
reasons by making an application in the office of  the Controller of Examinations 
through the respective Head of the Department , at least one day in advance of the 
last theory examination in that semester. When he /she appear subsequently, he / 
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
18                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
she have to appear for all the enrolled courses of that semester on registration and 
payment of fees. Subsequent appearance will not be counted as separate attempt. 
 
17.2 Those students who withdraw are eligible for the award of First Class and First Class 
with Distinction as per the requirement in this regard.   However he / she will not be 
considered for ranking. 
 
17.3 Withdrawal is permitted ONLY ONCE  during the entire duration of the degree 
programme. 
 
17.4.  Withdrawal is not permitted to the student who has not satisfied the               
conditions prescri bed in clause 7.0 as requirements for appearing in the end 
semester examination.  
 
17.5.  Withdrawal is permitted for the end semester examinations in the final semester, only 
if the period of study the student concerned does not exceed 3 years as per clause 
15.1. 
 
18.0 DISCIPLINE 
 
18.1    Every student is required to observe discipline and decorous behavior both inside and 
outside the college and not to indulge in any activity, which will tend to bring down the 
prestige of the college.  The Principal shall constitute a disciplinary committee to 
enquire into acts of indiscipline and notify the institution about the disciplinary action 
recommended for approval. In case of any serious disciplinary action which leads to 
suspension or dismiss al, then a special committee shall be constituted by the 
Principal for taking the final decision.  
 
18.2    If a student indulges in malpractice in any if the Examinations, the student shall be 
liable for punitive action as prescribed by the College from time to time.  
 
19.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM 
The standing committee/Academic Council of the College reserves the right to revise 
or change or amend the regulations, the scheme of examinations, the curriculum and 
the syllabi from time to time if found necessary. 
  
M.E. Regulation _CBCS_2018-19 
 
19                                                                                                   56
th
 Academic Council Meeting on  21.07.2018 
 
20.0 SPECIAL CASES 
In the event of any clarification in the interpretation of the above rules and 
regulations, they shall be referred to the Standing Committee.  The Standing 
Committee will offer suitable interpretations/ clarificatio ns /amendments required for 
special case on such references and get them ratified in the next meeting of the 
Academic Council. The decision of the Academic Council is final. 
 
***** 