Overview | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC Overview Breadcrumb Home > Overview Overview CDC Overview The Career Development Centre (CDC) of TCE is established with an ultimate aim of preparing the students to thrive in their chosen careers and contribute effectively to society. CDC of TCE empower students to achieve their career aspirations by bridging the gap between academic knowledge and industry requirements. CDC Functions Career Guidance and Counselling Assist students in identifying their career goals and provide guidance to achieve them. Offer personalized counselling for choosing career paths, whether in industry, academia, entrepreneurship, or public service. Skill Enhancement and Training Organize workshops, seminars, and training sessions to develop technical, soft, and employability skills. Promote certifications and skill-based learning in emerging technologies. Placement Assistance Facilitate on-campus and off-campus recruitment drives by collaborating with industries. Build and maintain strong relationships with companies to provide placement opportunities. Higher Education and Competitive Exams Support Guide students aspiring for higher education or preparing for exams like GATE, GRE, CAT, etc. Provide information about scholarships, research opportunities, and international programs. Monitoring and Feedback Track placement statistics and provide feedback to academic departments for curriculum enhancement. Gather feedback from recruiters to align training programs with industry expectations. Placement Categories General Placements This involves companies with salary package upto 4.5 lakhs p.a. Companies adhering to sharing slot offer placements like TCS, CTS, Infosys and also other companies visiting for recruitment in the salary up to 4.5 lakhs p.a. The eligibility criteria is 10th, 12th - 60 % each and CGPA of 6.0 and above with no standing arrears. Eligibility could vary as per company’s requirements. Dream Slots Dream slot companies are like ThoughtWorks, Wipro R & D, Embedur, Zoho, Genesys, Sirius, Temenos, EricSson. The salary range is from 4.5 Lakhs to 8 lakhs per annum. The eligibility criteria would be 10th, 12th – 70% each and CGPA of 7.0 and above with no standing arrears. Students selected in this category cannot appear for other companies unless the pay is above 8.0 lakh p.a. Usually, students selected in this offer will get internship in the final semester. Super Dream Offer Super Dream slot companies are like Amazon, Microsoft, Voonik, ABCO with package of above 8.0 lakhs per annum. The eligibility criteria would be 10th, 12th – 75 % each and CGPA of 7.5 and above with no standing arrears. Students selected in this category cannot appear for other companies. Companies do offer internship during the last semester. Core Placement Core companies are like Hyundai, Titan, Qualcomm and TAFE. The companies will be looking for the Mechanical, EEE, ECE and Civil students. The eligibility criteria would be 10th, 12th – 75 % each and CGPA of 7.5 and above with no history of arrears. Students selected in this category cannot appear for other companies. Internship Only Companies offer only internship during the last semester but no placement. Students selected in this category can appear for the general companies for placement offers which pay less than 4.5 Lakhs per annum. Stipend would be based on company norms. Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact