Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025 
 
 
RESEARCH POLICY 
 
 
 
Thiagarajar College of Engineering 
Madurai-625015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Sl.No. Title Page 
No.  
1 ACADEMIC RESEARCH (AR) POLICY 1 
1.1     Research Council  1 
1.2     Norms for Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) and Master of Science (M.S.  
      by Research) 1 
1.3     AR Norms for Faculty 2 
1.3.1    Financial Assistance 2 
1.3.2    Collaborative Research 2 
1.4   Plagiarism Check 3 
1.5   The Act of Plagiarism 4 
1.6   Code of Ethics Committee 4 
1.7   AR Norms for Students for Course on Research Practice 5 
2 SPONSORED RESEARCH (SR) POLICY 5 
2.1   Sponsored Research for Students 5 
2.2   Sponsored Research for Scholars 6 
2.2.1    Thiagarajar Research Fellowship (TRF) 6 
2.2.1.1     Eligibility & Duration 6 
2.2.1.2     Amount of Fellowship 6 
2.2.1.3     Standard Operating Procedure 6 
2.2.1.4     Expected Outcome 7 
2.2.1.5     Withholding of Fellowship 8 
2.2.1.6     Cancellation of Fellowship 8 
2.2.1.7     Guidelines 8 
2.2.2    Thiagarajar Post Doctoral Fellowship (TPDF) 9 
2.2.2.1     TPDF – Eligibility and Duration 9 
2.2.2.2     Eligibility for Acting as Supervisor 9 
2.2.2.3     Amount of Fellowship 10 
2.2.2.4     Standard Operating Procedure 10 
2.2.2.5     Expected Outcome 10 
2.2.2.6     Terms and Conditions 10 
2.2.3    Guidelines for Other Schemes 11 
2.3   Sponsored Research for Faculty 11 
2.3.1    Guidelines for Seed Money Scheme from TCE Management 11 
2.3.1.1     Eligibility 11 
2.3.1.2     Selection Procedure 12 
2.3.2    Research Supporting Resources 12 
2.3.3    Guidelines for Project Proposal Submission 12 
2.3.4    Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for UC Submission in Pro jects 13 
2.3.4.1     Objective 13 
2.3.4.2     Scope 13 
Contd… 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025 
Sl.No. Title Page 
No.  
2.3.4.3     Procedure 13 
2.3.4.4     Responsibilities 14 
2.3.4.5     Timeline 14 
2.3.5 
   Guidelines for Selection of JRFs and Other Research Personn el  
        (Technical Assistants and Research Associates) for Research  
        Projects 
14 
2.3.5.1     Eligibility 15 
2.3.5.2     Selection Procedure 15 
2.3.5.3     Fellowship and Tenure of JRF/Project Fellow 16 
3 PROMOTION OF RESEARCH (PR) POLICY 16 
3.1   Research Promotion Policies through Faculty Award Incentive for   
    Research Publications 16 
3.2   Norms for Individual Faculty Award 17 
 
 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             1 
                                                                  
Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai – 625 015 
                           RESEARCH POLICY 
 
 
 
Thiagarajar College of Engineering (TCE) is committed to serv ing society by 
conducting state-of-the-art research on par with the national and international 
standards. TCE creates an open platform to foster academic excellenc e and to 
pursue scholarly research activities. The researchers shall abide  by the research 
policy of the institute in accordance with the two key pr inciples namely, Quality 
and Ethics. They are also responsible for ensuring that the r esearch practices are 
carried out in conformance with the Anna University research policies. 
1. ACADEMIC RESEARCH (AR) POLICY  
1.1 Research Council 
Our institution’s Research Council (RC) comprises two external experts from 
higher learning institutions/research organizations/ind ustry, along with the 
Principal, Director, Deans, Heads of Departments, and the Dean/Associat e Dean – 
R&D. The tenure for external members is three years. The Res earch Council 
convenes once a year with the following objectives: 
 
 To provide guidelines for strategic planning and promotion of research 
 To facilitate interaction with external agencies (industri es, funding bodies 
etc.) and streamline the research proposal submission process 
 To facilitate collaborative research with industry and provide  guidance on 
technology commercialization 
 To provide guidelines for effective management of research funding and 
resources 
 To support and enhance research efforts of PhD scholars and students 
 To provide guidance on improving quality and quantity of res earch 
publications 
 To outline instructions for collaboration with national and international 
institutions 
 To give directions for having better benchmarking research  against leading 
national and global engineering institutions. 
 To establish a framework for recognizing faculty achievements in research 
1.2 Norms for Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) and Master of Science 
(M.S. by Research)  
Candidates should apply for Ph.D./M.S ( By Research) after getting approval 
from the head of the institution with AR-1 form. Candidates s hould enroll and 
register at TCE on getting provisional registration letter fr om Anna University and 
renew their registration during the 1 st week of February/August every semester. 
The AR-2 form should be used for enrollment. Full-time resea rch scholars must 
use AR-3 form to obtain college ID card, library access and att endance monitoring 

Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             2 
                                                                  
system registration respectively. Scholars shall get permissi on to register their 
course work (AR-4). Full- time scholars‟ attendance is monitored using a Biometric 
system and every day attendance is mandatory. 
Candidate should present his/her progress of research in the rev iew 
meeting once in six months and submit the Ph.D. /M.S. (Research) Ren ewal and 
Half Yearly Progress Review Report (HYPRR) in the prescribed f ormat (AR-5) to the 
department in which they have registered. The schedule for the r eview meeting 
would be prepared and announced by the Research and Development Te am. 
Candidates should get prior permission to conduct DC meetings, synops is 
meetings and Viva Voce exams after fulfilling the university norms. While 
submitting the thesis, candidates should submit the no dues form (A R-6) to the 
respective Department Level Coordinator. The research scholar shall submit a copy 
of Ph.D./M.S. thesis to the College Library on successful completion  of the Viva-
Voce. 
The candidates are instructed to publish their research work in  reputed 
(Scopus/ SCI/SCI-E/ESCI/Indian Citation Index) indexed conferences / journals / 
workshops only after obtaining formal permission and endorse ment from the 
respective supervisor. Only after checking for plagiarism , the research supervisor 
should permit the candidate to submit the paper to the journal. 
The faculty after the award of Ph.D., shall get the superv isorship within 3 
years. Number of scholars a supervisor can guide, shall be base d on the 
regulations of the UGC/Anna University norms. However, th e number of full-time 
scholars to the supervisors can be limited by the institution from time to time 
based on the infrastructure availability.  
1.3 AR Norms for Faculty  
To increase research outcomes, faculty members are permitte d to take 
advantage of support provided by the institution. They need to procee d with the 
same with after the approval of the respective department Heads. The following are 
the support extended by the institution.  
1.3.1 Financial Assistance 
 Faculty members can avail financial assistance for attending Sc opus 
indexed conferences/ conferences and seminars organized by the  reputed 
institutions in India as well as by leading industries. 
 A faculty member can seek reimbursement of registration and TA/DA_______ 
(to be specified) only if he/she is a presenter, provided no other  agency has 
given financial assistance for the same.  
1.3.2 Collaborative Research  
Faculty members are encouraged to pursue collaborative research with reputed 
institutions in India and abroad as well as with leading indus tries, following the 
guidelines and focus areas provided.  
 Inter›disciplinary research shall be carried out at research nodal centers of 
our college.  
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             3 
                                                                  
 Faculty shall also visit research laboratories in reputed i nstitutions in India 
or abroad as well as leading industries for interaction and di scussion with 
their research group leading to collaborative research such as joint research 
papers, joint research proposals, research partnership / MoUs or simil ar 
other research activities.  
 Faculty shall also spend one full semester in a reputed insti tution in India 
or abroad as well as leading R&D organizations/industries prov ided the 
preliminary research works required for such visits are complete d to the 
satisfaction of our college and the visiting institution/industry. A mount for 
TA/DA and fellowship shall be decided by the management. 
 Faculty members shall visit reputed institutions in India or a broad and 
leading R&D organizations/industries to do collaborative resea rch to guide 
the students during their internship in industry to solve sp ecific industrial 
problems. 
 The proposal shall address a topic of thrust area of their research field and 
address a challenging issue of theoretical, experimental and/or translational 
values. 
 The faculty members submitting proposals for research collabo ration shall 
be a doctorate or a pursuing PhD. 
o The proposal shall state clear and measurable deliverables with timeline. 
o A set of tangible earmarked deliverables of the collaborative efforts on the 
proposed topic consisting of joint research outcomes including but not 
limited to two or more of the following:  
⮚ Top Journal Publications 
⮚ Text Books  
⮚ Research Monographs 
⮚ Patents 
⮚ Products 
⮚ Scaled Pilots/demonstrations 
⮚ Course materials 
At the time of commencement of such a collaborative research, f aculty has to 
submit a proposal outlining the objective and significance of th eir collaborative 
research initiative. After the completion, faculty has to  submit a report outlining 
the outcome of the collaborative research work and the value a ddition it has 
provided to the faculty. 
1.4 Plagiarism Check 
 Research scholar should submit the copy of plagiarism check rep ort of the 
research paper to the concerned supervisor, before submittin g it to the 
journal/conference. The research scholar‟s synopsis/thesis should accompany the 
plagiarism report while submitting the same to Center for Rese arch, Anna 
University. 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             4 
                                                                  
 All the postgraduate s tudents‟ thes es should include the copy of the 
plagiarism check report. A maximum similarity threshold of 10% is allowed for 
Ph.D. theses, synopsis and postgraduate thesis. 
1.5 The Act of Plagiarism 
 The scholar/faculty shall not publish research articles wi th similar contents 
in part or full in more than one journal, which would result in self-plagiarism. 
 In case of scholars who have committed the act of plagiar ism in the 
thesis/journal publication, UGC/Anna University regulations will be followed for 
actions against him/her and his/her supervisor. 
1.6 Code of Ethics Committee  
 Research ethics committee assesses the sponsored and academic researc h 
initiatives in order to determine whether or not the work is ethical. This implies 
that the study must adhere to the established ethical norms, such as prot ecting 
participants’ rights, safety, and well-being of participants. It is also  necessary to 
obtain ethical permission from the research ethics committee as it ensures that the 
research is conducted responsibly that benefits both the society and participants of 
the study. 
 The research ethics committee comprises an external expe rt, Principal, Dean 
(R&D), Associate Dean (R&D), Librarian and College Level Coordinat or. The 
external expert will serve a two-year term as a member.  The committee meets 
once in a Semester. In case of an urgent requirement, the Code of Ethics 
Committee meeting will be conducted by the internal members. 
  
 The objectives of the committee are: 
 To assess research proposals in order to decide whether the proje ct is 
ethical. 
 To ensure that researchers submit a plagiarism report for a r esearch 
article before submitting it to a publication or conference. 
 To ensure that all researchers receive appropriate training in the use of 
equipment, keeping confidentiality, managing data, maintaining records, 
protecting and publishing data, responsibly using authoriz ed research 
resources, and respecting others’ intellectual property rights. 
 To ensure that supervisors adhere to the principles outlined in the 
Doctoral Supervision Code of Practice, which describe the sup ervisory 
relationship, how research progress is evaluated, and how diffi culties in 
the relationship are managed. 
 To advise and assist scholars and students with their ethical concer ns 
regarding research. 
 To act as a body that investigates and provides advice on any di sputed 
issue concerning research ethics and conduct. 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             5 
                                                                  
 To investigate the morality maintained when employing hum an 
participants in research 
 To sensitize the importance of ethics in research among stu dents, 
scholars, and faculty frequently so that their research is legiti mate and 
error-free. 
 To provide researchers a forum to express their concerns regardi ng the 
research they are conducting.  
1.7 AR Norms for Students for Course on Research Practice  
 A student who is having a minimum of 7.0 CGPA (up to the  third semester) 
and without having any standing arrears can register for th e course on „Research 
Practice‟ at the beginning of their Fourth Semester. The outcom e of the course will 
be a publication in SCI / SCI-expanded /SCOPUS indexed Journal / Conference in 
Science and Technology.  The number of credits for this cour se is 3. A group of a 
maximum of two (2) students can register for this course and th ey should be the 
first two authors. The student shall work under any TCE faculty  advisor who has 
published at least 3 papers in SCI/ SCI expanded/SCOPUS-indexed journ als. The 
faculty advisor is a third and the corresponding author. T he student can earn the 
credits in the subsequent semesters (Fifth to Seventh). When t he student provides 
the evidence of the research article publication (before starti ng the Fifth/ Sixth 
/Seventh-semester course enrolment), the grades and credits will be awarded in 
the subsequent semester. The grades will be awarded as per the detai ls in the 
following Table. 
  
S.No  Category of Journal Grade 
1   One Research Paper in SCI/SCI-Expanded Journal O 
2   Two Research Papers in SCOPUS-indexed Journals  O 
3   One Research paper in SCOPUS indexed Journal  A+ 
4   One Research Paper in SCOPUS indexed Conference  A 
  
 If the student is not able to publish within the sixth semest er, the registration 
will be automatically canceled and he/she has to meet the credit requirements for 
the elective category by registering for necessary elective course s in the seventh 
semester, if required. Further, if a student has not register ed for this research 
course in the fourth semester but meets all the requirements, then the student will 
be allowed to replace his/her grade and credits which are ea rned from this 
research course. The grade and credits for this course wi ll be transferred under 
programme elective for expanded scope category. 
2. SPONSORED RESEARCH (SR) POLICY 
2.1 Sponsored Research for Students 
 The UG/ PG students shall apply for funding support from the Gover nment 
/ Industries such as CPRI, NITI Aayog, MHRD, AICTE (Pragathi),  ISRO to 
work in advanced areas of domain after getting recommendation from th e 
college. 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             6 
                                                                  
 The student should not avail any financial assistance in the fo rm of 
scholarship/any emoluments, salary, stipend etc. from more tha n one 
source during his/her course of study in the Institute.  
 He/she should submit all the relevant documents to the institute f or 
verification before submitting the application. It should incl ude an internal 
guide from our institute.  
 The selected student should maintain attendance as prescribed by th e 
funding agency. 
 If any student leaves the programme mid-way, the institute has to ensure 
recovery of the scholarship drawn till date by the student. 
 The students shall apply for project associate of the sponsored/ consultancy 
project being done by our faculty.  
 
2.2 Sponsored Research for Scholars  
 
2.2.1 Thiagarajar Research Fellowship (TRF) 
2.2.1.1. Eligibility & Duration 
 The TRF will be granted to the full-time research schol ars of TCE admitted 
under Anna University, Chennai 
 Applicants must possess First Class in either bachelor‟s or master‟s degrees 
 Applicants must not receive any other Research Fellowship 
 Duration of the scheme is Maximum of 3 years 
 2.2.1.2. Amount of Fellowship 
 The fellowship amount will be Rs.15,000/- per month for the first year 
 The fellowship amount will be Rs.20,000/- per month for the second year 
 The fellowship amount will be Rs.25,000/- per month for the third year 
 
2.2.1.3. Standard Operating Procedure 
 The research scholar shall apply for TRF during the call for  proposals from 
the college. 
 The supervisor and the HoD will forward the application for the interview.  
 The applicant should attend the interview with proper evidence. 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             7 
                                                                  
 The progress of TRF scholars is periodically reviewed by the TRF Rev iew 
committee formulated including an external expert and m embers from TCE 
once in six months.  
 2.2.1.4. Expected Outcome 
● At the end of six months, the scholar should have, 
❖ a paper submitted to the conference (Scopus Indexed) at least o ne 
month prior to the review meeting. 
● At the end of one year, the scholar should have, 
❖ at least one publication in reputed conference (Scopus Indexed) 
❖ a paper communicated to refereed national/international Journal  
(SCImago Journal Rank Quartiles - Q1/Q2/Q3) at least one-
month prior to the review meeting 
●  At the end of one year and six months, the scholar should have totally, 
❖ at least one publication in reputed conference (Scopus Indexed). 
❖ at least one paper accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed 
national or international journal (SCImago Journal Rank Quartiles 
- Q1/Q2/Q3). 
❖ a paper submitted to the conference (Scopus Indexed) at least o ne 
month prior to the review meeting. 
●  At the end of two years, the scholar should have totally, 
❖ at least two publications in reputed conferences (Scopus Indexed) 
❖ at least one publication in refereed national/international Jou rnal 
(SCImago Journal Rank Quartiles - Q1/Q2/Q3) 
❖ a paper submitted to the conference (Scopus Indexed) at least o ne 
month prior to the review meeting 
❖ a paper communicated to refereed national/international journ al 
(SCImago Journal Rank Quartiles - Q1/Q2/Q3) at least one month 
prior to the review meeting 
● At the end of two years and six months, the scholar should have totally, 
❖ at least three publications in reputed conferences (Scopus 
Indexed) 
❖ at least two publications in refereed national/international jour nal 
(SCImago Journal Rank Quartiles - Q1/Q2/Q3) 
❖ a paper communicated to refereed national/international journ al 
(SCImago Journal Rank Quartiles - Q1/Q2/Q3) at least one month 
prior to the review meeting 
● At the end of third year, the scholar should have totally, 
❖ at least three publications in reputed conferences (Scopus 
Indexed) 
❖ at least three publications in refereed national/international 
journals (SCImago Journal Rank Quartiles - Q1/Q2/Q3) 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             8 
                                                                  
 All the above publications, only four authors are allow ed (inclusive of scholar 
and supervisor), either scholar or supervisor must be a corresponding author.  
 2.2.1.5. Withholding of Fellowship 
● Scholars who do not meet the TRF scheme requirements will have  their 
fellowships suspended till they fulfill the necessary criteria.  
● The minimum period of withholding fellowship is one month 
 2.2.1.6. Cancellation of Fellowship 
 Unsatisfactory progress in research work or failure in a course work. 
 Any false information furnished by the scholar or any fr audulent activity by 
the scholar shall lead to penal action against him/her 
 The fellowship may be terminated at any time during the tenure and the 
decision of the TCE will be final and binding 
 Violation of TRF Guidelines 
 2.2.1.7 Guidelines 
 The scholar must devote full time to research during the fello wship tenure 
and will not be permitted to take any part-time or full-time assignments. The 
scholar will not be permitted to accept any salary, fellowship or any type of 
financial assistance offered during the tenure of fellowship t hrough any 
other source.  Otherwise, the entire amount of fellowship received till date 
will have to be refunded. However, if the candidate is interes ted in applying 
for a fellowship to other agencies, they need to get prior pe rmission from the 
Dean (R&D) and the head of the institution. 
 The scholar shall give a declaration that if the results of research are such 
that can be exploited commercially by taking a patent or otherw ise, 
commercial exploitation and patent rights should be with the  Institute, 
candidate and supervisor. The rules of TCE, if any, in this rega rd will be 
applicable. 
 If the progress of a research scholar is reported as unsatisfactory by the 
supervisor/ Head of the Department/ Head of the Institution, the fellowship 
of the scholar will be terminated with immediate effect. This will not be 
revoked under any circumstances. 
 The Ph.D. rules and regulations of the TCE and Anna University , Chennai 
will be applicable to all the scholars. 
 No separate medical assistance will be provided. However, the sch olar may 
avail the medical facilities available in TCE. 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             9 
                                                                  
 Accommodation, contingencies and other expenses will not be  given 
separately. 
 Leave details are as per TCE norms. 
 Teaching assistantship of not more than 8 hours/week will be given to the 
scholars under TRF scheme and may include assistance in lab clas ses, 
tutorial support etc. 
 If the scholar leaves the institute/program before completion, he/she will be 
liable to refund the entire fellowship amount received b y him/her till the 
date of his/her leaving the scheme. 
 Progress of the research work should be monitored by the revi ew committee. 
Based on the expected outcomes attainment, fellowship of the next  year will 
be granted. 
 The review committee will evaluate the progress of the resear ch work every 
six months. The fellowship for the subsequent six months wi ll be granted 
based on the attainment of the expected outcomes. 
 If the scholar submits their thesis during the fellowship perio d, they will not 
be eligible to claim the stipend beyond the date of thesis submission. 
 Scholars are instructed to acknowledge the scheme in the research  
publications and Ph.D. thesis report as per the following format. “This 
research work is financially supported by Thiagarajar Resea rch Fellowship 
(TRF) scheme - (File.no: TCE/RD/TRF/_______ dated ______)” 
 
2.2.2 Thiagarajar Post Doctoral Fellowship (TPDF) 
2.2.2.1 TPDF - Eligibility and Duration 
 Applicant must possess a Ph.D. degree or have completed a Viva-Voce in the 
thrust area/frontier technologies 
 Applicants are required to have at least three peer-reviewed publications in a 
reputed journal with a ranking of SCImago - Q1 in the thru st area/frontier 
technologies. 
 Applicant‟s upper age limit is 40 years. 
 The duration is maximum of 2 years 
2.2.2.2 Eligibility for acting as a Supervisor 
 Supervisor should have completed at least 5 PhD scholars unde r his/her 
supervision. 
 Supervisor must have at least ten publications in the Scopus index ed 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             10 
                                                                  
journals, three of which should be listed in Scimago -Q1. 
 The age of the supervisor should not exceed 55 years. 
 There shall be only one PDF scholar to a department at a given time. 
2.2.2.3. Amount of Fellowship 
● The fellowship amount will be Rs.45,000/- per month. 
2.2.2.4. Standard Operating Procedure 
● The research scholar shall apply for TPDF during the call for proposals from 
the college. 
● The Supervisor and the HoD will forward the application for the interview.  
● The applicant should attend the interview with proper evidence. 
● The progress of TPDF scholars is periodically reviewed by the committee 
once in six months.  
2.2.2.5. Expected Outcome 
● At least two publications in thrust area/frontier technologies s hould be 
published each year in journals ranked Scimago- Q1. 
● A minimum of one Indian patent should be filed in the thrust  area/frontier 
technologies every year. Patent filings should be made in the  name of TCE 
only. 
● At least one project proposal relevant to the thrust area/frontier technologies 
should be submitted along with the supervisor, to any fundin g agency every 
year. 
● TPDF scholar should conduct a workshop (duration 1-3 days) every y ear for 
the faculty and scholars of TCE to share their knowledge in the in thrust 
area/frontier technologies. 
  
In publications, only four authors are allowed (inclusive of P DF scholar and 
supervisor), either the scholar or the supervisor must be a corresponding 
author. The TPDF funding must be acknowledged in the publication s as per the 
guidelines provided. 
2.2.2.6 Terms and Conditions 
● As per the regulations of TCE, casual leave will be provided. 
● During the tenure of this fellowship, the fellow is not permitted to accept any 
salary or fellowship offered by any other source, failing  which the fellowship 
should be refunded in full. 
● Fellows will not be permitted to leave the institution during  their fellowship 
period. He/she must return the entire fellowship amount if he/she wishes to 
leave the institution during this time. 
● Every six months, there will be a review. 
● Teaching assistantship of not more than 8 hours/week will be given to the 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             11 
                                                                  
scholars under TPDF scheme and may include assistance in lab cl asses, 
tutorial support etc. 
● In the event that the results of the research are commercially exploitable, the 
fellow shall make a declaration that the commercial exploi tation and patent 
rights will be in accordance with TCE’s intellectual property  rights policy. 
Research papers may be submitted to journals after a patent application has 
been filed. 
● There will not be any separate medical assistance provided. H owever, the 
fellow may take advantage of the medical facilities available at TCE. T here 
will be no separate allowance for accommodation, contingen cies, or other 
expenses. 
● In the event that any false information is provided by the fe llow or any 
fraudulent activity is perpetrated by the fellow, criminal charges  will be 
brought against him. 
● At any time during the fellowship term, the TCE may termin ate the 
fellowship at its discretion. The TCE’s decision is final and binding. 
● Scholars are instructed to acknowledge the scheme in the research  
publications as per the following format. “This research work is fina ncially 
supported by Thiagarajar Post Doctoral Fellowship (TPDF) schem e - (File.no: 
TCE/RD/TPDF/ ______  dated ______)” 
 
2.2.3 Guidelines for other schemes 
 As per the procedure of the scheme, the research scholar mu st report their 
progress to the funding agencies on time without fail. 
 The scholars who procured non-recurring items under any s cheme, should 
communicate and get approval from the college through supervisor and HoD 
in advance. For procurement, settlement, UC submission etc, he/she  must 
follow the standard operating procedures of the college.  
2.3 Sponsored Research for Faculty 
2.3.1 Guidelines for Seed Money Scheme (SMS) from TCE Management  
2.3.1.1 Eligibility  
The criteria for eligibility will be as follows. 
 The applicant should be a teaching faculty (Professor/ Associate Professor/ 
Assistant Professor) who has been appointed against a permanent vacancy. 
 The applicant should submit the proposal after a period of two  
years(minimum) from the date of joining the college 
 The applicant should be a Ph.D. degree holder/pursuing Ph.D. with a 
minimum of 2 journal publications/conference publications. 
 The applicant should not have any other on-going project funde d by the 
Seed Money Grant scheme of TCE at the time of the proposal submission. 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             12 
                                                                  
2.3.1.2 Selection Procedure  
 The application for financial assistance in the prescribed for mat (detailed 
proposals, item wise financial estimates) should be submitted to the  Dean of 
Research and Development of the college through the concerned Head  of the 
Department within 30 days of notification. 
 There shall not be any salary/honorarium component in the project 
 The proposal shall be scrutinized and recommended for funding by the 
committee constituted by the Head of department concerned, followed by the 
Principal. 
 Subject to availability of the funds, proposals for financial a ssistance will be 
screened and approved by duly constituted committee, which will 
subsequently be sanctioned by the Principal 
 The progress report of the research and its utilization of  funds should be 
submitted. 
 The sanctioned project is to be completed before the ending of the mentioned 
duration. 
 The decision of the Principal shall be final in all respects 
2.3.2 Research Supporting Resources  
 
Grant from External Agencies  
 The external funding/grant may be obtained from various gov ernment/non-
government organizations and industries. All applications for an y external 
research funding are to be submitted through Dean (R&D) and Principal.  
 All research projects contracted by an external party are a dministered by 
Dean (R&D) and Principal.  
 
2.3.3 Guidelines for the Project Proposal Submission 
 The faculty shall apply for funding support from the Govern ment/ 
Industries, to do sponsored/collaborative research based on th e call for 
proposals from the agencies. The formats of project proposals are genera lly 
available on the websites of the agencies. 
 PI/Co-PI should submit the SR Form-2 to the Principal for approval at least 
10 days prior to the final submission deadline. 
 The PI/Co-PIs shall then submit the application along with supp orting 
documents based on the Principal‟s approval to the Funding Agencies 
Website.  
 Once selected for an interview by the funding agency, the Principal 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             13 
                                                                  
Investigator shall be asked to present the proposal before the Progress 
Review Committee (PRC) to improve their interview performance. 
 The PIs shall maintain a new Head of account and prepare a stock register 
with proper entries of purchase of recurring and non-recurr ing items upon 
sanction of the project by the funding agency. 
 The PIs shall attend the Status Update Meeting (Once in six months) 
conducted by the department level Progress Review Committee.  The 
committee assesses the progress of the project for its timely completion.  
 The principal is the Competent Authority to constitute or approv e the 
Progress Review Committee. 
 The PIs shall submit the Half Yearly Progress Review Repor t (SR Form-5) to 
the Research office.  
 The PIs shall prepare Project Completion Report (SR Form-6) on  completion 
of the project duration according to the guidelines of the funding agency and 
submit it to Research office. 
 The PIs shall submit the Project Completion Report, Utilization Certificate 
(prepared as guidelines in section 2.3.4) and Publications / patent list to the 
Sponsoring agency through the proper channel.  
 PIs have to submit the Sponsored Research (SR) forms such as SR Forms-1, 
3, 4 and 7 to the Research office at the appropriate time.  
 
2.3.4 Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for UC Submission in 
Projects 
2.3.4.1 Objective 
To establish a structured process for preparing, verifying, and submitting 
utilization certificates for funded projects, ensuring compli ance with funding 
agency guidelines and timely submissions. 
2.3.4.2 Scope 
This SOP applies to all funded research and development projec ts within the 
institution that require submission of a UC as part of the reporting requirements. 
2.3.4.3 Procedure 
1. Initiate Documentation and Expenditure Tracking 
● All project expenditures must be documented systematically. Each 
expense should have corresponding receipts, invoices, or vouchers. 
2.  Reconciliation and Review 
● Conduct a review of expenses against the approved budget to ensu re 
accuracy and compliance. This minimizes discrepancies at the end of 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             14 
                                                                  
the project and facilitates accurate UC preparation. 
3. Drafting the Utilization Certificate 
● Based on the reconciled expenditure data, draft the UC using the 
agency-provided or institution-approved format. Include all n ecessary 
details such as project title, funding reference number, and expen se 
breakdown. 
4. Verification and Approval 
● Submit the draft UC for verification to the institution‟s financ e 
department. The department should check all expenses, validate the 
totals, and ensure compliance with funding Agency‟s guidelines. 
● Obtain signatures from the Principal Investigator, Finance Off icer, 
Registrar, and any other required officials. 
5. Certification by Chartered Accountant  
● If required by the funding agency, have the UC reviewed and ce rtified 
by a Chartered Accountant for authenticity and accuracy. 
6. Submission to Funding Agency 
● Ensure that all the required documents, including progress reports 
and financial statements, are attached. 
● Submit the UC before the deadline as specified by the funding agency. 
Retain proof of submission, such as a receipt or acknowledgment. 
7. Record-Keeping and Follow-Up 
● Retain copies of all submitted documents for institutional records. 
● Monitor for feedback or requests from the funding agency to address 
any potential issues in the UC. 
2.3.4.4 Responsibilities 
● Principal Investigator : Responsible for ensuring compliance with project 
guidelines, approving the UC, and coordinating with the finance department. 
● Finance Department: Responsible for verifying the financial details of the 
UC and ensuring compliance with institutional policies. 
● Chartered Accountant : Certifies the UC for agencies requiring external 
validation. 
2.3.4.5 Timeline 
● The UC should ideally be prepared and submitted within the deadlin e 
provided by the funding agency, with regular checks to avoid last-m inute 
discrepancies. 
2.3.5 Guidelines for selection of JRFs and other research personnel   
 (Technical Assistants and Research Associates) for Research Projects  
 Selection of JRF/Research Associate/Project Fellow shall normal ly be made 
as per the guidelines provided by the sponsoring agency if the project is from 
the funding Agency. 
 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             15 
                                                                  
2.3.5.1 Eligibility  
 Educational Qualifications:  
o If the guidelines are not provided by the sponsoring agency, a candidate 
seeking selection as JRF/Project Fellow must possess an 
M.E/M.Tech/M.Sc./MPhil or any other postgraduate degree in the 
concerned discipline from a recognized University with a minim um of 
55% marks in aggregate. 
o Project employees may be allowed to register for the Ph.D. programm e of 
the Anna University if they fulfill all the requirement s prescribed by the 
Anna University 
 Age:  
o If the guidelines are not provided by the sponsoring agency, th e 
candidate shall not be more than 28 years of age for the award of 
Fellowship on the stipulated last date of receiving applications i n 
response to advertisement. The upper age limit may be relaxed u p to 5 
years in the case of candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC/Women and 
physically challenged applicants.  
2.3.5.2 Selection Procedure  
 Positions will be advertised in any of the national / regional newspapers and 
through other social media / channels (such as by means of circulation of 
notices to various Universities and display in the TCE Website  Homepage) at 
least two weeks prior to the dates on which the candidates are to appear for 
the personal interview if shortlisted and called for.  
 Applicants who have already cleared the National Eligibility Tes t (NET) for 
JRFs conducted by UGC/CSIR/ICAR/DBT/ICMR or GATE and/or have 
experience in research appropriate for the project will be  given due 
weightage. 
 The screening of applications for calling candidates for interview will be done 
by a `Screening Committee‟ consisting of the Principal Investiga tor (PI) 
and/or the Coinvestigator of the project.  
 The PI will suggest a selection committee to the Dean (R&D) comprising of: (i) 
Dean (R&D) or His/Her nominee: Chairperson (ii) Head of the De partment: 
Member (iii) Subject Expert: External Member (iv) Princi pal Investigator: 
Member Secretary / Convenor (If the HoD is the PI, one senio r Faculty 
Member of the concerned or related department to be nomina ted by Dean 
(R&D)). (External Member can be also from other departments with in the 
institution unless specified by the funding agency).  
 The Selection Committee has to be approved by the Dean (R&D) and the 
Principal.  
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             16 
                                                                  
 Subsequently, the PI shall inform the Dean (R&D) and Selectio n Committee 
Members about the date and time of the interview. 
 During the interview, the committee shall test the candidates‟ knowledge of 
the subject, aptitude for research, creative thinking and sincerity.  
 Following the interview, a report on the selected and wait listed candidates 
will be submitted for the consideration and approval of the Dean (R&D).  
 After the approval of the Dean (R&D), the office of the Regi strar/Principal 
will issue appointment letter(s) to the selected candidate(s).  
 In general, the travel and accommodation expenses to the candidates  called 
for interview shall not be paid and this information would be  provided in the 
advertisement.  
 The candidate is expected to join within 30 days from the date of issue of the 
letter of fellowship award, failing which the award shall b e cancelled. 
However, in exceptional circumstances, the Dean (R&D) may grant extension 
provided the letter requesting extension is routed through the PI.  
2.3.5.3 Fellowship and Tenure of JRF/Project Fellow 
 The tenure and fellowship amount for the project staff per mon th shall be 
determined as per the rules and regulations of the funding agency. 
  If nothing is mentioned, the fellowship amount shall be deci ded by the PI 
and approval for this shall be taken from the Selection Committee, 
Registrar/Principal and management. 
3. PROMOTION OF RESEARCH (PR) POLICY  
 
The objectives of promotion of research policy are: 
 To encourage the faculty members to publish in more num ber of SCI/ 
SCOPUS/WoS journals and conferences  
 To promote collaborative research publications along with Highe r Education 
institutions (IITs, NITs, IISc, IIITs, Foreign Universities etc.) and industries. 
 To improve the quality of research publications, citations and h-index 
 To increase the funding from sponsored research projects 
 
3.1 Research Promotion Policies through Faculty Award Incentive for 
Research Publications 
Incentive is provided to encourage our faculty, Ph.D. scholars an d UG & PG 
students to publish their research work in high quality j ournals and renowned 
conferences. Incentive for Research Publications (IRP)  will be applicable to the 
authors whose publications containing TCE affiliation.  
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             17 
                                                                  
This scoring framework categorizes journal publications and o ther scholarly 
contributions based on their impact and indexing quality, which  is divided into 
multiple levels to determine the respective points awarded. 
1. Journal Publications: 
o Category A : Includes publications indexed in SCI (Science Citation 
Index), SCI-E (Science Citation Index Expanded), SSCI (Social 
Sciences Citation Index), or Scopus, with a Clarivate Analyti cs Impact 
Factor (IF) or Scopus’ Source Normalized Impact per Paper (SNIP)  
score of 0.5 or higher. Publications in this category are award ed 20 
points. 
o Category B: Similar to Category A in indexing requirements (SCI/SCI-
E/SSCI/Scopus), but with an IF or SNIP score below 0.5. Publications 
in this category receive 10 points. 
o Category C : Includes publications in journals indexed by other 
indexing services, which are considered less prestigious than SCI, 
SSCI, or Scopus. These publications are awarded 4 points. 
2. Conference Publications: 
o Publications presented at national or international conferences can  
receive 5 points if they meet one or more of the following criteria: 
▪  They are associated with professional bodies such as ACM 
(Association for Computing Machinery), IEEE (Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers), CSI (Computer Society of 
India), or Springer. 
▪  They are organized by institutes of national importance, su ch 
as IITs (Indian Institutes of Technology) or NITs (National 
Institutes of Technology). 
▪  They are held outside India, indicating a broader internationa l 
audience. 
 
3. Books and Book Chapters: 
o Publishing a book with a reputed publisher earns 20 points. 
o Contributing chapters or serving as an editor for a book (published by 
a reputed publisher with an ISBN) earns 8 points. 
4. Editorial Roles: 
o Serving as an editor or associate editor for reputed journa ls is valued 
at 6 points. 
This scoring system emphasizes the importance of publishin g in high-impact 
journals and reputed conferences, as well as contributions to bo oks and editorial 
roles, to enhance the credibility and impact of research work. 
 
3.2  Norms for Individual Faculty Award 
Individual Faculty Awards are based on the points earned for th e corresponding 
achievements. Points awarded for each metric are as follows: 
 
 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             18 
                                                                  
S.No Achievement of Faculty Points 
1 TCE Online Courses Development: 
4 weeks Course 
8 weeks Course 
12 Weeks Course 
  
10 
15 
20 
2 New Course Development and organization with the support 
from Industry Subject Matter Expert 
One Credit 
Two Credits 
  
  
4 
8 
3 Collaborative Teaching along with Professors from Higher  
Education Institutions 
India 
Abroad 
  
  
4 
8 
4 Student Feedback in Teaching Learning Process (Averaged 
over all the courses conducted in the odd and even 
semesters) 
>90 % 
80% to 90% 
  
  
 
10 
5 
5 Outcomes achieved by supporting fast learners and slow 
learners 
8 
6 Patents Granted (Utility Patents only) 
International 
National 
  
15 
10 
7 Patents Published: (Utility Patents Only) 
International 
National 
  
10 
5 
8 SCI / SCI-E / SSCI / Scopus Journal Publications 
Q1 Journals Paper 
Q2 Journals Paper 
Q3 Journals Paper 
Q4 Journals Paper 
  
15 
10 
5 
3 
9 Scopus Indexed Publications in National/International 
Conferences 
•    Associated with professional bodies like 
ACM/IEEE/CSI/ Springer 
•    Organized by institutes of national importance such 
as IIT/NIT 
•    Held outside India 
5 
10 Publication of Book (ISBN with reputed publishers) 15 
11 Contributed Chapters/Book Editor (ISBN with reputed 
publishers) 
8 
12 Editor/Associate Editor in reputed Journals 6 
Third Revised Version approved on 08.01.2025                                                                             19 
                                                                  
13 Funding received for R&D Projects with Project Amount: 
< 5 Lakhs 
>=  5 and < 10 Lakhs 
>= 10 and < 20 Lakhs 
>= 20 and < 50 Lakhs 
>= 50 Lakhs 
  
5 
10 
15 
20 
25 
14 Ph.D. Awarded to Faculty 16 
15 Ph.D. Guided by the Faculty 12 
16 International Level Conferences/Seminars/Symposia 
Organized 
(To be shared among the faculty members of the Organizing 
Team) 
20 
17 National Level Conferences/Seminars/Symposia Organized 
 (To be shared among the faculty members of the Organi zing 
Team) 
12 
18 FDPs/ Workshops / Training Programmes conducted 
(To be shared among the coordinators who not receive 
coordination charges) 
<= 5 Days and number of outside participants is >20 
>5 Days and number of outside participants is >20 
  
  
 
8 
12 
19 Any Outstanding Achievements (Awards won by faculty) Appreciation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
