Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          1 
 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI – 625 015 
(A Govt. Aided, ISO 9001:2008 certified, Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University) 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                        
RULES  AND  REGULATIONS 
 
M.E. / M.Tech. / M.C.A. Degree Programmes 
 
These rules and regulations are applicable to the candidates  admitted from the 
academic year 2011-12 onwards 
  
1. 0 PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE 
 
 In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
I) “Programme” means Post Graduate Degree Programme that is M.E. /M.Tech./ 
M.C.A. 
 
II) Branch” means specialization or discipline of M.E. /M.Tech. Degree 
Programme, like Communication Systems,  Power Systems Eng ineering, 
Production Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, etc. 
 
III) “Course” means a theory or practical subject that is normally studied in a 
semester, like Precision Manufactur ing, Power Electronics, Communication 
Engineering, etc. 
 
IV) „University‟ means Anna University 
 
2.0 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION: 
  
The   candidates   seeking   admission to the programme shall require satisfying 
the eligibility norms prescribed by the Anna U niversity and Director of Technical 
Education, Chennai, from time to time. 
 
3.0 BRANCHES OF STUDY: 
   
  M.E. Degree 
 Structural Engineering 
 Infrastructure Engineering and Management 
 Industrial Engineering 
 Manufacturing Engineering 
 Power System Engineering 
 Communication Systems 
 Wireless Technologies 
 Computer Science and Engineering 
 Computer Science and Information Security 
 Mechatronics 
M.Tech. Degree 
 Environmental Engineering 
 Control and Instrumentation 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          2 
 
 
M.C.A. Degree 
 Computer Applications 
 
4.0 STRUCTURE OF PROGRAMMES: 
 
4.1 The programmes consist of: core courses, electiv e courses, practical courses, 
seminars and project work/ thesis / dissertation. The programmes also include 
design projects / planning projects / seminars / practical / practical training, if they 
are specified in the Curriculum.  
 
4.2 The curriculum and syllabi of all the programmes shall be approved by the Board 
of Studies and Academic Council.  
 
4.3 A candidate may be permitted by the Head of the Department to choose one 
elective from programmes offered by other departments in the college during the 
period of his/her study, provided the Head of the Department offering such 
course also agrees and there is no overlapping in the time -table for the lecture 
classes. 
 
4.4 Project Work/ Thesis/ Dissertation  
 
4.4.1 Project Work / Thesis / Dissertation shall be carried out under the supervision 
of a faculty in the concerned Department. 
 
4.4.2 A candidate may, however, in certain cases, be permitted to work 
on the project in an Industrial/Research Organization, on the recommendat ions 
of Head of the Department, with the approval of the principal. In such cases, 
the Project work shall be jointly supervised by a supervisor of the department 
and an Engineer / Scientist from the Organization and the student shall be 
instructed to meet the supervisor periodically in any working day of every 
month and to attend the review committee meetings for evaluating the 
progress. These candidates will produce a certificate of attendance from the 
Industry / Research Organization where the project is done. They will also 
report the progress to the local Guide and the Head of the Department every 
month. 
 
4.4.3 The report of Project work / Thesis / Dissertation and Drawings prepared 
according to approved guidelines and duly signed by the supervisor(s) and the 
Head of the Department shall be submitted to the Controller of Examination 
(CoE).  
 
4.4.4 The report of Project work / Thesis / Dissertation  shall be submitted on or 
before the last day mentioned in the Academic Calendar of the semester. 
 
4.4.5 No further extension of  time will be permitted.  Due to unavoidable 
circumstances if any candidate is not able to submit the project report on or 
before the last date prescribed, he / she shall is deemed to have failed in the 
Project and shall re-enroll the same in the subsequent semester.  They shall be 
granted one additional semester for submission of project report, by the 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          3 
 
Principal based on the recommendations of the Guide and the Head of the 
Department concerned and on the payment of tuition fee and other special fees 
prescribed by the college office.    
 
4.4.6 Every candidate doing M.E./M.Tech. /M.C.A. shall, based on his/her Project  
Work / Thesis  / Dissertation, send a paper for publication in a refereed journal 
or a conference in which full papers are published after usual revi ew. An 
acknowledgement for having communicated to the journal or conference shall 
be attached to the report of the Project Work.  
 
4.5 Practical training or Industrial internship, if specified in the Curriculum shall be 
of not less than 4 weeks duration and sh ould be approved by the Head of the 
Department / Institution. 
 
4.6 A student who has passed all the courses prescribed in the curriculum for the 
award of the degree shall not be permitted to re-enroll to improve his/her marks 
in a course or the aggregate marks. 
 
4.7 The Medium of instruction, examinations and project report shall be in English 
 
 
5.0 DURATION OF THE PROGRAMMES AND SEMESTERS: 
 
5.1   The minimum and maximum period for completion of the Programmes are given in 
TABLE I. 
TABLE I : Duration of Programmes 
Programme Min. No. of Semesters Max. No. of Semester 
M.E./M.Tech 4 8 
M.C.A. 6 12 
 
5.2 The duration for the programmes shall extend over a period of four consecutive 
semesters for the candidates admitted in M.E./ M.Tech. programmes  
 
5.3 The duration of the programmes shall extend over a period of six  consecutive 
semesters for the candidates admitted in M.C.A. programme in the first semester 
and four consecutive  semesters  for the candidates admitted in third s emester 
(Lateral Entry Students, with effect from 2013-14) . 
 
5.4 Each semester normally consists of 90 working days.  In any contingent situation, 
the number of working days per semester shall not be less than 65 days.  The 
Principal is given the discretionary power to decide the number of working days. 
The Principal shall ensure that every faculty member imparts instruction as per 
the number of periods specified in the syllabus and that the faculty teaches the 
full content of the specified syllabus for the course being taught. 
 
5.5 For the purpose of r egulations, the academic year will be  normally divided into 
two semesters, the odd semester normally spanning from June to November and 
the even semester from December to May. 
 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          4 
 
5.6 The courses in the curriculum of the Odd semesters will be conducted only in odd 
semesters and that of the even semesters only in even semesters.  
 
 
6.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPLETION OF A SEMESTER: 
 
6.1     A candidate who has fulfilled the following conditions shall be deemed to have 
satisfied the requirements for completion of a semester: 
a. he/she has earned not less than 65% of attendance (without considering any 
leave) in each course in that semester and not less than 80% of attendance 
(without considering any leave) on an average in all the courses in that 
semester put together, and 
b. his/her progress has been satisfactory, and  
c. his/her conduct has been satisfactory. 
6.2 A candidate who could secure minimum of  65% attendance (without considering 
any leave) in any individual course and an average attendance above 70% and 
below 80 % (without considering any leave) in all the courses in the current 
semester due to medical reasons (hospitalization / accident / specific illness) or 
due to participation in the College / University / State / National / International 
level Sports events with prior permission from the Principal / competent authority 
shall be given exemption from the prescribed attendance requirement and he/she 
shall be permitted to appear for the current semester examinations , after paying 
the condonation fee at the CoE office. 
 
6.3 Attendance for Medical Leave & On Duty Leave (ODL) for  co -curricular and 
extra-curricular activities all put together shall be considered up to 10% on the 
actual total number of working days,  provided Medical Certificate or certificate of 
participation in co curricular / extra – curricular activities from the competent 
authority is submitted within THREE working days from the date of rejoining the 
college after the particular period of leave on medical ground or extra – curricular 
activities or both. 
 
6.3.1    The following activities shall be considered for the award of attendance (ODL): 
 Sports and Games: TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zonal, Inter University, 
State level, National level and Open Tournaments. 
 Cultural Programs 
 Seminar / Symposia: Paper presentation / Quiz 
 Leadership course organized by other organizations & Alumni Association 
activities 
 Training Programs 
 Association Activities 
 Personal damages incurred during the extra-curricular activities. 
 Projects in Industries/Organizations. 
 Placement activities. 
 
The students those who are good in curriculum progress ONLY be considered for 
the grant of under co -curricular / extra -curricular activities by the competent 
authorities. 
 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          5 
 
6.4  Percentage of attendance for the leave period (ML or O DL or Both)  for the 
purpose of calculation of eligibility will be worked out based on the actual number 
of working days during the period of leave availed by the student and the actual 
total number of working days in that semester. 
6.5 The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to the Principal through the Head of 
the Department of the student and the faculty in charge of the respective 
activities before / after completion of the every activity. 
 
6.6     The ODL sanctioned letters shall  be submitted to the Departme nt office.  The   
staff in charge of the department office will check the eligibility as per the clause 
6.3, 64. & 6.5  for the award of attendance at the end of semester and the same 
may be submitted to the Head of the Department for approval. 
       
6.7 Those students who are not deemed to have completed the semester with 
reference to the conditions specified above shall undergo the semester again in 
all the courses in the respective semester of next academic year. 
 
7.0 FACULTY ADVISOR (TUTOR) 
 
To help the students in planning their courses of study and for general advice on 
the academic programme, the Head of the Department of the students will attach 
a certain number of students to a faculty of the Department who shall function as 
Tutor for those students throughout their period of study. Such Tutor shall advise 
the students and monitor the courses undergone by the students, check the 
attendance and progress of the students attached to him/her and counsels them 
periodically. If necessary, the faculty advis er may also discuss with or inform the 
parents about the progress of the students through the Head of the Department 
concerned. 
 
8.0 CLASS COMMITTEE 
 
8.1. Every class shall have a class committee consisting of faculty members handling 
courses of the concerned  class, student representatives – cross section of 
students (Academically good, average, Poor) and a chairperson who is a faculty 
not handling the course for the class. The overall goal is to improve the teaching -
learning process. The functions of the class committee include: 
 
 Solving problems experienced by students in the classroom and in the 
laboratories. 
 Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules 
therein. 
 Informing the student representatives the academic schedule includ ing the 
dates of assessments (Tests & Assignments) and the syllabus coverage for 
each assessment. 
 Analyzing the performance of the students of the class after each test and 
finding the ways and means of solving problems, if any 
 Identifying the weak students, if any, and requesting the faculty concerned to 
provide some additional help or guidance or coaching to such weak students. 
 
8.2 The class committee for a class is constituted by the Head of the department.   
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          6 
 
 
8.3 The class committee shall be constitute d on the first day of commencement of 
any semester. 
 
8.4 At least 4 student representatives shall be included in the class committee. 
 
8.5 The chairperson of the class committee may invite the Tutor(s) and the Head of 
the department to the meeting of the class committee. 
 
8.6 The Principal may participate in any class committee of the institution. 
 
8.7 The chairperson is required to prepare the minutes of every meeting, submit the 
same to Head of the Department  within two working days of the meeting and 
arrange to circulate among the concerned students and faculty members. If there 
are some points in the minutes requiring action by the management, the same 
shall be brought to the notice of the management by the Principal. 
 
8.8     The class committee shall meet three times a semester: 
 
 The first meeting within a week from the date of commencement of the 
semester.  
 The second meeting a week after the first test results. 
 The third meeting a week before the last lecture day of the semester. 
 
8.9 During these mee tings the student members representing the entire class, shall 
meaningfully interact and express the opinions and suggestions of the other 
students of the class to improve the effectiveness of the teaching -learning 
process. 
 
9.0 SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION: 
 
9.1  Performance in each course of study shall be evaluated based on (i) continuous 
assessment throughout the semester and (ii) a terminal examination at the end of 
the semester.   
 
9.2 All theory, practical, seminar and other than Project Work / Thesis / Disser tation, 
shall be evaluated for a maximum of 100 marks. The Project Work / Thesis / 
Dissertation shall be evaluated for a maximum of 300 marks. The maximum 
marks assigned to different courses shall be as given in Table II. 
TABLE II:   Marks (Maximum) to courses 
 
Courses Continuous 
Assessment 
Terminal Exam. Total 
Conducted 
for 
Converted 
to 
Theory  50 100 50 100 
Practical  50 100 50 100 
Seminar  50 100 50 100 
Project Work / Thesis / Dissertation 150 300 150 300 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          7 
 
 
 
9.3  The terminal examination of theor y and practical courses shall be 3 hours 
duration and ordinarily be conducted between November and December during 
the odd semesters and between April and May during the even semesters. All 
practical examinations shall be conducted and evaluated internally  by the 
institution itself. 
 
9.4  Seminar: A team comprising of Head of the Department concerned, a common 
internal examiner nominated by the Head of the Department concerned and an 
external examiner will award marks in the terminal examinations based on t heir 
presentations. The external examiner shall be appointed by the Controller of 
Examinations of the college from the panel of the examiners suggested by the 
Head of the Department.  The Head of the Department , in his/her absence / non-
available periods, may nominate a faculty to act on behalf of him/her.  
 
9.5 Project Work / Thesis / Dissertation: A team comprising of Guide, Head of the 
Department concerned and external examiner will award marks for the Project 
Report and Viva – Voce examination (Terminal  Examination).  The external 
examiner shall be appointed by the Controller of Examinations of the college from 
the panel of the examiners suggested by the Head of the Department. The Head 
of the Department, in his/her absence / non -available periods, may n ominate a 
faculty to act on behalf of him/her.   
 
9.6 Students are prohibited from entering into the examination Hall / Laboratories any 
book or portion of book, manuscript, or paper of any description or 
communicating with or copying from each other or co mmunicating with any 
persons outside the examination Hall / Laboratories. Programmable calculators. 
cell phone shall not be permitted inside the examination hall / Laboratories.  
However, any required codebooks and data sheets / books if necessary may be 
permitted inside the examination hall / laboratories with approval of the Chief 
Superintendent / Examiners.  The students are warned that any form of 
malpractice will be dealt severely.  The punishment may even be canceling all 
the examination written by th e student and debarring permanently from all the 
examinations and disciplinary action will be taken by the college authorities after 
conducting enquiry. 
 
9.7  Identity card and Hall ticket of the college must be produced at the time of 
terminal examination. Any student fails to produce Identity card and Hall ticket 
shall be levied a spot fine by the Chief superintendent/ Examiners. 
 
9.8  For all the practical courses and project work, students shall obtain bonafide 
certificate for the Record /Project work c ompleted from the faculty -in-charge 
/Guide and head of the department at the end of the semester. Students who 
have not obtained the bonafide certificate are not permitted to appear for the  
terminal examination. 
 
9.9  The internal and external examiners fo r practical courses shall be appointed by 
the head of the department /controller of examination.  
 
 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          8 
 
10.0 PROCEDURE FOR AWARDING MARKS FOR CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT 
 
10.1 Theory courses: 
1. The award of marks for continuous assessment shall be based on three tests and  
three Assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini projects. 
 
2. The apportioning of marks shall be as follows: 
i) 40 marks for tests 
ii) 10 marks for assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini projects 
 
3. Three Tests will be conducted as per the schedule given in the academic 
calendar. Each test carries maximum of 50 marks. Among the three tests, the 
best two test marks will be considered for the award of continuous assessment of 
40 marks for test. 
  
4. Both Test and A ssignments/tutorials/seminars/mini projects  marks a re put 
together (Max. 50) and rounded to nearest integer if necessary. 
 
 10.2 Practical courses: 
 
Minimum one test should be conducted at the end of the semester. The 
continuous assessment mark will be awarded as follows: 
Test mark        :20  
Average mark awarded for Viva – voce, Conduct of  
experiments, Observation & Results in regular class work  :20 
Average of the marks awarded for Record in regular class work :10 
 
All the marks put together (Max. 50) and rounded to nearest integer if necessary. 
 
10.3 Seminar / Project work / Thesis/ Dissertation: 
 
The Head of the Department shall constitute a review committee. There shall be 
three assessments (each 100 Marks) during the semester by the review 
committee. The student shall make presentation on the progres s made by him / 
her before the committee. The total marks obtained in the three assessments 
shall be converted to 50 m arks for seminar and 150 marks for 
Project/Thesis/Dissertation.    
 
10.4 Every faculty is required to maintain an Attendance and Continuou s Assessment 
Record which consisting of attendance marked for each lecture or practical or 
project work classes, the tests & assignment marks and record of class works 
(topics covered) separately for each course. This should be submitted to the 
Head of the  department concerned at the end of every month for checking the 
syllabus coverage and the records of test marks and attendance. The Head of 
the department will put his signature and date after due verification. At the end of 
the semester, the register sho uld be verified by the Head of the Department and 
keep this document in his safe custody for five years. The register will have to be 
produced for scrutiny by the Principal or any inspecting authority whenever called 
for. The faculty handling courses for a  particular programme from other 
department (Eg. English, Mathematics, Science, etc.,) shall submit the register to 
the Head of the Department of the programme concerned. 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          9 
 
11.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE TERMINAL EXAMINATION:  
 
A candidate shall be permitted to appear for the terminal examinations only if, 
a) he/she satisfies the  requirements prescribed  in clause 6.0  and  
b) he/she has paid the examination fees and registered for the examinations  for 
all the courses of current semester and all the arrear courses, if any. 
 
If any candidate failed to register and pay the examination fees within due date, 
they shall be permitted: 
 
 to continue their studies in the next higher semester, provided that the 
candidate should satisfy the requirements as stipulate d in clause 6.0 of this 
regulations and   
 to write the current semester courses and arrear courses if any, in the next 
supplementary examination as arrear courses on registration and  payment of 
fees.  It will be counted as an attempt for the candidate concerned. 
 
12.0 ELIGIBILTY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE: 
 
12.1 Theory / Practical courses: A candidate who secures not less than 50 marks 
out of 10 0 marks in terminal examination and not less than 50 marks in 
aggregate of the continuous assessment mark and the termi nal examination put 
together shall be declared to have passed in that course. 
 
12.2 Seminar: A candidate who secures not les s than 50 marks out of 10 0 marks in 
the Viva -Voce examination and not less than 50 marks in aggregate of the 
continuous assessment mark a nd the terminal examination put together shall be 
declared to have passed in Seminar. 
 
12.3 Project / Thesis / Di ssertation: A candidate who secures not less than 75 
marks out of 150 marks in the Viva -Voce examination and not less than 150 
marks in aggregate of  the continuous assessment mark and the terminal 
examination put together shall be declared to have passed in the Project / Thesis 
/ Dissertation. 
 
12.4 If a candidate fails to secure a pass in a particular course, it is mandatory that 
he/she shall register and  reappear for the examination in that course during the 
next semester when examination is conducted in that course; he/she should 
continue to register and reappear for the examination till he / she secures a pass. 
However, the internal assessment marks obt ained by the candidate in the first 
attempt shall be retained and considered valid for all subsequent attempts, during 
his/her course of study.   
 
12.5 A candidate can apply for revaluation of his/her semester examination answer 
paper in a theory course, within 3 working days from the declaration of results, on 
payment of a prescribed fee through proper application to the Controller of 
Examinations. The Controller of Examination will arrange for the revaluation and 
the results will be published before the c ommencement of supplementary 
examinations. Revaluation is not permitted for practical courses and for project 
work. 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          10 
 
 
12.6 Award of Grades: 
 
Range of Total Marks (TM) 
(Continuous assessment +Terminal Examination) 
Letter Grade Grade Point 
(GP) 
10090  TM
 S 10 
9080  TM
 A 9 
8070  TM
 B 8 
7060  TM
 C 7 
6050  TM
 D 6 
500  TM
 RA  ( Re-Appear) 0 
Non-completion of a semester(Repeat course) I 0 
Withdrawal from terminal examination W 0 
Absent AA 0 
 
 
Sum of (Credits  GP)GPA Sum of Credits

 
 
Cumulative GPA (CGPA) will be calculated in a similar manner, considering all 
the subjects registered from the first semester.   
 
12.7   If any candidate having arrears and completed the programme, for the subsequent 
attempts in arrear courses  as a private candidate in the examinations the 
Continuous Assessment Marks earned by the candidate shall be nullified and only 
the marks earned in the Terminal Examinations alone shall be considered for 
passing the subject a s prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations (Min. 50% of 
the Terminal Examination Marks) of the curriculum. 
 
13.0 ISSUE OF GRADE CARD: 
 
A grade card for each semester will be issued, containing the following information 
through the Head of the Department after the publication of the results.  
1. The credits registered and earned. 
2. Grade obtained in each course. 
3. Grade Point Average (GPA) of the semester and Cumulative Grade Point 
Average (CGPA) earned up to the semester. 
4. Month and year of appearance. 
5. Course code and Title. 
 
14.0 ELIGIBILTY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE: 
 
14.1 A candidate shall be eligible for the award of degree only if he / she enrolls for all 
the courses and earns the minimum number of credits prescribed in the 
curriculum of the respective programme.  A candidate who has acquired the 
minimum number of total credits prescribed in the curriculum for the award of 
degree will not be permitted to enroll for more subjects to improve his / her GPA.   
 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          11 
 
14.2 A candidate seeking M.E. /M.Tech./ M.C.A  shall be required to have pursued the 
prescribed courses of study and evaluation in the college for the specified 
duration and passed all the examinations prescribed there for. 
 
14.3 No disciplinary action pending against the student. 
 
 
15. 0 CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED: 
 
15.1. First class with Distinction: 
 
A candidate who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 13.0) having 
passed the examination in all the courses within the prescribed semesters (four 
semesters for M.E. /M.Tech. programmes, and Six semesters for MCA 
programme) consecutively without break of study, in his / her first appearance 
and securing a CGPA of not less than 8.00 shall declared to have passed in First 
class with distinction. For this purpose, the authorized break of study (vide clause 
16.0) and withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 1 7.0) will not be counted 
as an attempt. 
 
15.2.    First Class: 
 
A candidate who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 1 4.0) having 
passed the examination in all the subjects within the prescribed nu mber of 
semesters (four semesters for M.E./M.Tech. programmes, and Six semesters for 
MCA programme)  consecutively form his / her commencement of study  and 
securing a CGPA of not less than 6.50 shall declared to have passed in First 
class. For this purpose the authorized break of study (vide clause 1 6.0) and 
withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 1 7.0) will not be counted as an 
attempt. 
 
15.3. Second Class: 
 
All other candidate who qualifies for the award of degree having passed the 
examination in all the courses and fulfilling the requirements given in clause 1 4.0 
above, shall be declared to have passed in Second Class. 
 
15.4 A candidate who is absent for seme ster examination in a course / Seminar / 
Project/Thesis/Dissertation  after having registered for the same shall be 
considered to have appeared for that examination for the purpose of 
classification. 
 
  
16.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME 
 
i) A candidate is not normally permitted to temporarily break the study.  
However, if a candidate inte nds to temporarily discontinue the programme in 
the middle for valid reasons (such as accident or hospitalization due to 
prolonged ill health) and to rejoin the programme, he/she shall apply in 
advance to The Principal, through the Head of the Department s tating the 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          12 
 
reasons there for, in any case, not later than the last date for registering for 
the semester examinations of the semester in question.   
 
ii) The candidate permitted to rejoin the programme after the break shall be 
governed by the rules and regulations in force at the time of rejoining. 
 
iii)      The duration specified for passing all the courses for the purpose of 
classification vide Clause 15.0 shall be increased by the period of such break 
of study permitted. 
 
iv) The total period for completion of the p rogramme reckoned from, the    
commencement of the first semester to which the candidate was admitted 
shall not exceed the maxi mum period specified in clause 5 .1 (See TABLE I) 
irrespective of the period of break of study in order that he/she may be 
eligible for the award of the degree (vide clause 14.0). 
 
v) If any student is detained for want of requisite attendance, progress and good 
conduct, the period spent in that semester shall not be considered as 
permitted „Break of Study‟ and Clause 16.0(iii) is not applicable for this case. 
 
 
17.0  WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS: 
 
17.1  A candidate will be permitted to withdraw in any one of the semesters except 
first semester examination during the entire duration of the degree programmes 
for valid and genuine rea sons by making an application in the office of the 
Controller of Examinations along with the Hall ticket or attendance certificate from 
the Head of the Department for withdrawal at least one day in advance of the last 
examination in that semester.   
 
17.2  When he / she appears subsequently, he / she has to appear for all the subjects 
of that semester.  Subsequent appearance will not be counted as separate 
attempt. 
 
17.3  Those candidates who withdraw are eligible for the award of First Class and First 
Class with Distinction as per the requirement in this regard.  However he / she 
will not be ranked. 
 
17.4  Withdrawal is permitted only once in the whole programme. 
 
18.0 DISCIPLINE: 
       
Every student is required to observe disciplined and decorous behavior  both 
inside and outside the college and not to indulge in any activity which will tend to 
bring down the prestige of the college. 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation 2011-12 onwards 
 
Approved in 46th Academic Council Meeting on 10.08.2013          13 
 
19.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM: 
 
The standing committee/Academic Council of the college reserves the right to 
revise or change or amend the regulations, the scheme of examinations, the 
curriculum and syllabi from time to time if found necessary.  
 
 
 
 
 
20.0 SPECIAL CASES: 
 
In the event of any clarification in the interpretation of the above rules and 
regulations, they shall be referred to the Standing Committee.  The Standing 
Committee will offer suitable interpretations/ clarifications /amendments required 
for special case and the interpretations/ clarifications /amendments will be placed 
in the next meeting of the Academic Council. The decision of the Academic 
Council will be final. 
 