1 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI – 625015.  
                   ELIGIBILITY QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION TO VARIOUS  
                                M.E. / M.Plan. DEGREE PROGRAMMES 2026-2027 
 
 
Sl.No.  P.G  Programmes  Eligible Qualifications  
 
1. 
 
M.E. Construction Engineering 
and Management 
B.E.  / B.Tech.  
1. Civil Engineering, Civil Engineering with any specialization, 
Civil and ‘any specialisation’ 
2. Geo-Informatics, Geo-Informatics Engineering 
 
 
2. 
 
M.E. Structural Engineering 
 
 
3. 
 
 
M.E. Communication Systems 
 
B.E/  B.Tech. 
1. Electronics and Communication Engineering (Or) Electronics 
Engineering (Or) Electronics Engineering with any 
specialisation (Or) Electronics and ‘any specialisation’  
2. Computer and communication 
3. Telecommunication Engineering  
4. AI with ‘any specialisation’ 
  
 
4. 
 
 
M.E. Embedded System 
Technologies  
 
B.E.  / B.Tech.  
1. Electrical and Electronics Engineering,  Electrical 
Engineering 
(Or) Electrical Engineering with any specialisation (Or) 
Electrical and ‘any specialisation’ 
2. Electronics and Communication Engineering (Or) 
Electronics Engineering (Or) Electronics Engineering with 
any specialisation (Or) Electronics and ‘any specialisation’ 
3. Instrumentation Engineering / Instrumentation and 
Control Engineering  
4. Computer Science and Engineering / Computer Science 
and Engineering with any specialisation  
 
 
 
5.  
 
 
 
 
M.E. Computer Science and 
Engineering 
B.E. / B.Tech. in,  
1. Electronics and Communication Engineering (Or) Electronics 
Engineering (Or) Electronics Engineering with any 
specialisation (Or) Electronics and ‘any specialisation’ 
2. Computer Science and Engineering / Computer Engineering 
/ Computer Science / Computer Technology (Or) Computer 
Engineering / Computer Science / Computer Technology / 
Computer Science and Engineering with any specialisation (Or) 
Computer Science and ‘any specialisation’ (Or) Computer and 
‘any specialisation’ 
3. Software Engineering  
4. Information Technology (Or) Information Technology with 
any specialization. 
5. Information Science and Engineering  
6. Artificial Intelligence and Data Science / Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning  
7. Cyber Security 
 
2 
 
 
   6. 
 
 
M.Plan. 
 
1. B. Plan. 
2. B. Arch. 
3. B.E. (Civil Engg.) 
4. AIIA* 
[* Candidates who have qualified as AIIA (Associateship 
Examination of the Indian Institute of Architects) with a valid 
registration with the Council of Architecture are eligible] 
M.A. / M.Sc. 
i)  Geography ii) Economics iii) Sociology iv) Social Work with 
Community development specialization and Rural 
Development Note: Admission  shall be offered only to candidates who possess the qualification  
prescribed above against each programme. 
 
  FEE DETAILS  :   
                  Total Fees  :  Rs.1,30,000/- per year  
Fee to be paid at the time of admission  :  Rs.65,000/- (Odd Semester)  
                                                                               :  Rs.65,000/- (Even Semester)  
                          Mode of Payment        :   Demand Draft in favor of  
             “The Principal, Thiagarajar college of   
                Engineering” (payable at Madurai.) 
 
                           (or)  
 
               Online payment 
 