 THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution Affiliated to Anna University 
Approved by AICTE, Ranked in NIRF, Programmes Accredited by NBA 
Accredited with A+ Grade (3.47 out of 4) by NAAC in Cycle 1)  
  MADURAI 625015, Tamil Nadu 
 
 
Web:www.tce.edu      Phone: 0452-2482240, 04522482430       Fax: 0452-2483427     E-mail:principal@tce.edu 
 
 
 
Code of Conduct: Faculty Members 
1. Professional Development : Teachers should consider themselves as learners and 
engage in continual professional development. 
2. Integrity and Devotion to Duty : Teachers must maintain absolute integrity and 
devotion to duty at all times. 
3. Compliance: Teachers are expected to abide by and comply with the rules and 
regulations of the college, as well as all orders and directions of the management. 
4. Conflict of Interest: Teachers should not engage directly or indirectly in any trade or 
business. 
5. Service Termination: Teachers should not unilaterally terminate their service during 
the middle of the academic year. If termination is necessary due to unavoidable 
circumstances, prescribed notice period or salary for the prescribed period must be 
provided as per the service rules. 
6. Contribution to Educational Policy : Teachers should contribute to the development 
and promotion of all-encompassing educational policy. 
7. Syllabus Completion: Teachers are responsible for completing the syllabus within the 
stipulated time. 
8. Assessment Procedures : Conduct Internal assessment as per the approval by the 
Academic council for the respective courses and maintain the records of marks.. 
9. Dress Code: Teachers are advised to wear formal dress during college hours. 
10. Disciplinary Measures : Teachers must refrain from administering physical 
punishments to students for mis-behavior. Instead, they should warn the students or 
report the incident to the Head of Department (HOD) or Principal for necessary action. 
11. Disciplinary Cases Handling: Cases of indiscipline, misbehavior, or insubordination 
should be addressed at the HOD or Principal level. Teachers should not threaten 
students with punitive actions in the name of marks or other consequences. 
12. Enforcement of Dress Code: Students violating the dress code must not be allowed to 
attend lectures, laboratories, or the library. 
13. Administrative Responsibilities : Teachers with administrative roles must meet 
stakeholders as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) of their work. 
14. Examination Conduct: Teachers should adhere to the rules set by the Controller of 
Examinations (COE) for the smooth conduct of examinations. 
15. Malpractice Reporting : Any cases of malpractice must be reported to the Chief 
Superintendent or Assistant Superintendent of the examination center immediately. 
Invigilators should not condone malpractice by giving oral warnings. 
Adherence to these guidelines ensures professionalism, fairness, and discipline among the 
teaching staff, contributing to a positive academic environment. 
  