Centres of Excellence | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC Centres of Excellence Breadcrumb Home > Centres of Excellence Centres of Excellence Centres of Excellence ABOUT CoE Thiagarajar College of Engineering (TCE), Madurai has established 27 Centres of Excellence (CoE) to foster advanced learning, interdisciplinary research, and industry collaboration. These centres serve as innovation hubs where students, faculty, and industry professionals converge to explore emerging technologies and solve real-world problems. Each CoE is equipped with modern infrastructure, specialized laboratories, and cutting-edge tools tailored to its domain—ranging from artificial intelligence, wireless communication, and embedded systems to advanced manufacturing, material science, and sustainable energy. The objective of these centres is to bridge the gap between academic learning and industrial application by providing hands-on training, facilitating research projects, and supporting entrepreneurial initiatives. These centres also enable collaborative work with industries thereby fostering a culture of innovation and continuous learning within the campus. Collectively, the CoEs at TCE play a crucial role in building technical expertise, promoting translational research and nurturing future-ready engineers and technologists. Click Here to download the Centres of Excellence (CoE) Booklet People Core Team SUMMER INTERNSHIP 2026 - MAY / JUNE 2026 Details about CoEs S.No Name of the CoE Lab Department Year of Establishment Faculty Coordinators & DLC Industry Collaboration / Interface Major Facilities Key Activities 1 TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research (TSSCAR) MECH 29 Nov 2019 Dr. K. Srithar, Prof & Head / Mech Dr. M. Balamurali, ASP/Mech M/s TVS Motor Company, Hosur Product Engineering Lab - Design Product Build Lab - Manufacturing Product Reliability Lab - Testing Electric Vehicle Lab - Testing Centre for Electronic Product Testing Alpha TKG Skill Development Centre Consultancy Testing Training Internship Workshops and FDP 2 Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) https://www.tce.edu /nodal-centre/ceept ECE 2024 Dr. B. Manimegalai, Prof & Head/ECE Dr. K. Hariharan, Prof &Dean(III)/ECE Dr. N. Ayyanar, AP/ECE Thiagarajar Telekom Solutions Ltd It is dedicated to serve as a hub for testing of electronic hardware products across a broad frequency range, catering to wireless and defence industries. CEEPT has a well-established laboratories providing testing facility for Electronic PCB products and antennas Workshop and upskilling programmes to government, private R&D organizations and educational institutes at the National and International levels, Industry people in the fields of advanced test engineering Basic, Intermediate and Advance training in Electronic Hardware Testing Support to Start-ups, MSME and incubates in product testing and upskilling Short term Training courses to students to enhance their employability levels and upgrade their skill sets in Electronic product testing Certificate courses for internal and external students in collaboration with industries 3 Centre of Excellence in Environmental Awareness and Education Chemistry January 2018 Dr. A. RamalingaChandrasekar, AP/Chem Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, New DELHI R&D lab for waste plastics characterization and reuse/utilization List of instrument facilities given in Annexure - 1 Testing and Certification Collaborations and innovations with industries and other agencies Education and Training Community Engagement 4 Centre of Excellence in Information Management Systems AMCS 2021 Dr.S.Parthasarathy, Prof, Head & Dean (CoE&CCE)/DS, AMCS Dr.T.Chandrakuma, Prof/DS, AMCS IBM, Banglore 40 Desktop Systems With UPS Backup Online Seminars, One Credit Course, IBM Software/Tools: Watson Studio Desktop, PowerAI Vision Faculty Development Programme, Student Internship Cognitive Classes, Certificate Courses and Badges 5 Centre of Excellence in Sustainability Management Chemistry 2024 Dr. A. RamalingaChandrasekar, AP/Chem Thiagarajar College R&D lab for waste plastics characterization and reuse/utilization List of instrument facilities given in Annexure - 1 Testing and Certification Collaborations and innovations with industries and other agencies Education and Training Community Engagement 6 Centre of Excellence for Civil Infrastructure CIVIL 21st March 2025 Dr. G. Chitra, Prof/Civil Mr. B. Dinesh Kumar,  AP/Civil M/s. Bentely Education and its authorized training partner TechApps Consulting Pvt., Ltd, Chennai i) STAAD Pro (Foundation, RCDC, RAM connection) – 120 users |ii) Open Building Designer (OBD)- 120 users ii) Synchro 4D – 120 users 1) Workshop on “Bentley Innovation in Civil Infrastructure – A Spectrum of Applications” held on 21st March 2025 by Experts from Bentley Education TechAppsPvt Ltd 2) Inhouse OBD training for UG and PG- CEM  Students conducted (54 nos.) – Rs. 1,62,000/- generated in April 2025 3) Lab internship for other college UG/PG students on STAAD Pro RCDC to be conducted from 16 th to 23 rd June 2025 4) 3 day FDP on “BIM integrated Project Management” for members from Academia and Industry planned during the 3rd week of July 2025 in collaboration with Bentely Education and its authorized training partner TechApps Consulting Pvt., Ltd, Chennai 5) Analysis and Design lab using STAAD Pro software has been introduced and conducted as a part of curriculum of B.E Civil Engineering Programme 6) Synchro software applications has been added to the BIM lab of curriculum of PG CEM programme from the odd semester of 2025- 26 CIVIL 21st March 2025 Dr. S. Arulmary, Prof & Head/Civil Dr. G. AngelinLincy,  AP/Civil MIDAS R&D Centre, India Pvt., Ltd, and its authorized training partner TechApps Consulting Pvt., Ltd, Chennai MIDAS Civil – Bridges, Class room software lab programme – 10 users 1) 3 day industry - academia basic course on Bridge Engg its code of practice – 6th to 8 th December 2024 2) One day inhouse industry – academia training programme on “Design of Bridges using MIDAS” –8.2.2025 3) National level workshop on “Applications of MIDAS -Civil in infrastructure – 21 stMarch 2025 4) Ministry of Education andAICTE approved two week Summer Internship for UG/PG students on “Analysisand Design of Bridges– Mastering MIDAS Civil software”, sponsored by MIDAS -2 nd June 2025 to 14 th June 2025 5) 3 day FDP on Theory to Terrain: Bridge Design Concepts with MIDAS- Civil – 12 th to 14 th June 2025 6) Proposed 2 credit industrysupported course titled “Structural Design of Bridges” for UG students forthe odd semester of 2025-26 7 Centre of Excellence in Robotics Mechatronics 2019 Dr. G. Kanagaraj, Prof/Mect Mr. M. A. Ganesh, AP/Mect M/s Hirano, Japan Hardware: 1. GP12 Industrial Robot with robot controller 2. MH5LS Industrial Robot with robot controller 3. SIEMENS S71200 Programmable Logic Controller 4. Panasonic PV200 Image Grabber 5. Conveyors with motors 6. Kobuki Mobile Robot Base (2 Quantities) Software: 1. RoboDK Simulator 2. MotoSim Simulator 3. GP-Pro Human Machine Interface Software Academics 22MT280 – Introduction to Mechatronic Systems 22MT650 - Robotics Laboratory Research Robot path planning Path optimization Cooperative robots Autonomous robots Intelligent robot systems Consultancy Robot Simulation and Validation 8 Centre of Excellence in Visionary Learning Community of India MECH 2019 Dr. K. Srithar, Prof & Head / Mech Dr. C. Vignesh, AP/Mech Additional Faculty Members : Dr. C.Paramasivam, Prof(CAS)/Mech Dr. M. Karthic, AP/Mech Dr. H. Ramesh, AP/Mect M/s. TAFE Pvt. Ltd., Madurai An exclusive VLCI Centre spanning 900 sq. ft., offering a conducive environment for learning and team activities. Equipped with projector, air- conditioning and carpeted flooring. Wall panels and sliding boards are used to display charts, drawings, sticky notes, and group activities. A structured, industry-focused course is offered at the exclusive VLCI Centre to enhance practical skills and understanding of modern manufacturing systems. The program is open to interested students from III semester Mechanical and Mechatronics Engineering. The course follows a modular structure, progressing from basic observation skills to advanced manufacturing concepts. Enrollment begins in the III semester and continues through the VII semester. Course Modules and Credit Allocation: Module 1: Observation Skills Semester: III – 1 Credit Module 2: Evolution of Modern Manufacturing Semester: IV – 1 Credit Module 3: Modern Manufacturing – Basic Knowledge and Skills Semester: V – 1 Credit Module 4: Material Flow Mapping Semester: VI – 1 Credit Module 5: Flow Management Concepts Semester: VII – 2 Credits 9 Centre of Excellence in Amazon Web Services IT 2024 Dr. C. Deisy, Prof & Head/IT Dr. S. Padmavathi, Prof/IT AWS Access to AWS Academy portal on request. (Based on the certification course, Nominal fees may be collected from the learners enrolled) Student AWS Certification Programme Five day Training programme on Cloud Architecting was organized at Dept of IT during 17-21, July 2024. 102 students and 2 faculty members successfully completed the training and certified as AWS Academy Graduates of Cloud Architecting Faculty Training Programme Five day FDP on AWS Cloud Foundations organized for 25 faculty (18 internal and 7 external). 10 Centre of Excellence in Electronic System Design and Manufacturing ECE & EEE 2025 Dr. L. Ashok Kumar, Prof/EEE &Principal, TCE Dr. V. VinothThyagarajan, ASP/ECE Dr. D. Kavitha, ASP/EEE MeitY& Semiconductor Industries 5000 Sq.ft - ESDM Lab facility having PCBMATE Pro PCB and Antenna Designing M/C Semi Automatic Stencil printer PCB Assembly line with loader, Automatic SMT pick and place, Reflow Oven and unloader. SMT layout verification accessories Computers with PCB design and antenna design software 2000 Sq.ft - conference hall class room facility to support training of 60 students. Conduct high quality industry relevant skill training in industry simulated environment for faculty members and students on emerging technologies of Electronics systems. Identify the emerging trends in industry by conducting national level conferences, Hackathon / Project based learning, Technical meet up, workshops to promote innovation among aspiring candidates. To offer Certification programs equivalent from Associate level to Expert level. Evangelizing the emerging technology education among stake holders. Mentoring technology aspirants for promoting tech Startups. Curriculum and content Development on Industry-relevant skills. 11 Centre of Excellence in Tamil Virtual Academy College 2024 Dr G.S.R. Emil selvan, ASP/CSE Tamil Virtual Academy To be developed in A1 hall Student learning through online portal (Payil app) 12 Centre of Excellence in Multidisciplinary Tamil and AI Research for Innovation CSE, IT, AMCS & CSBS 2024 Dr.S.MercyShalinie, Prof, Head & Dean (MIS)/CSE Dr. C. Deisy, Prof&Head/IT Dr.S.Parthasarathy, Prof, Head & Dean (CoE&CCE)/DS, AMCS Mr. S. Santhana Hari, AP/CSE - 1. GPU Server P100 Machine (On-Prem.) 2. E2E Cloud GPU Access – H100 Machine 1. Dataset creation for Tamil 2. Research paper 3. Model development 4. Mobile and Web app developments 13 Centre of Excellence in Hydrogen Energy Research Chemistry 2025 Dr. M. Kottaisamy, Prof & Head/Chem Dr. P. Velusamy, AP/Phy Dr. P. Ramkumar, AP/Chem Seeking collaboration with a hydrogen fuel manufacturer and individuals involved in green hydrogen-based electric vehicles. Research partnerships with professors at CECRI- Karaikudi. 1. DC Power Sources 2. Solar panel 3. Spin coater 4. Solar Simulator 4. Pyrolysis set up 5. Magnetic stirrers 6. UV Chamber 7. Hot air oven 8. Muffle furnace 1. Design and develop safe,efficient electrochemical systems for hydrogen production. 2. Synthesize and optimizenovel nanomaterials for high- performance hydrogen electrodes. 3. Evaluate hydrogen generation efficiency usingadvanced electrochemical and analytical techniques. 4. Integrate photovoltaic systems with electrolyzers toenable green hydrogen production. 5. Fabricate solar cells usingsustainable nanomaterials forindoor and outdoor energy harvesting. 6. Innovate scalable photocatalytic technologies for lab-to-industry hydrogen conversion. 7. Develop hybrid solar- hydrogen devices to maximize solar energy utilization. 8. Create high-density, low-light responsive solar cells for smart energy systems. 9. Promote industrial collaboration for technologyscale-up and commercialization. 10. Advance sustainable materials and systems for acarbon-neutral hydrogen future. 14 Centre of Excellence in E-Learning Content ECE 2011 Dr. S. Md. MansoorRoomi, Prof & Dean (Infrastructure) / ECE Dr. M. Senthilarasi, AP/ECE - 1. Panasonic Video cameras 2. Datavideo Brand Live Analog Video Mixer 3. Video editing system 4. Adobe Premiere Video editing software 5. Cool Edit Pro Audio editing software 6. Canara Lighting System 7. Panasonic Professional Display 8. HP Dual Monitors 9. Storage Devices 10.Lifesize video conferencing device Development of Bridge Course for first year engineering students across Tamilnadu State as requested by DTE Massive open online course creation Video messages Expert Interviews Video conferencing 15 Centre of Excellence in Material Research and Energy Solutions Physics 2025 Dr. M. Mahendran, Dr. S. Karthickprabhu, & Dr. P. Sivakumar Collaboration with Iner-University Accelerator Centre, New Delhi. Seeking collaboration with Emerald Gold Company, Coimbatore. 1. RF/DC Magnetron Sputtering Systems and Thermal Evaporation Units: HHV High vacuum (10⁻⁶ mbar); Substrate Sizes: Up to 6 inches; Temperature: over 3500°C 2. Cyclic Voltammetry -Work Station; MetrohmAutolab PGSTAT204 Potential: ±10 V | Current: 10 nA–10 mA, Bandwidth: 10 mHz–1 MHz 3. Arc Melting Furnace: Mansha Vacuum Temp.: >3500°C | Tungsten electrode | Copper water-cooled crucible 4. Ball Milling Unit: PM 100: Jar Volume: up to 500 ml | Speed: 100–650 rpm | G-force: 33.3g 5. Glove Box: MBRAUN; Ar atmosphere | H₂O/O₂ < 1 ppm 6. Scanning Tunneling Microscope: Nanosurf Easy Scan: 100 nm x 100 nm Atomic resn. 7. Vacuum Furnace: Tubular Furnace: Max Temp.: 1700°C | Digital display | N₂/Ar atmosphere 8. Computational Materials Research Software: (VASP, WIEN2k, Quantum Espresso, Gaussian, LAMMPS, SCAPS-1) 9. Coin Cell Crimping Machine: (Dies: CR2032, CR2025, CR2016 | Max Pressure: 8 Metric Ton) Skill development in advanced electrochemical techniques. Promotion of research and innovation in energy materials and devices. Strengthening academic-industry collaboration in green hydrogen and energy storage sectors. W⁶⁺-doped CoAl₂O₄ for enhanced green hydrogen production. Nd³⁺-modified CoAl₂O₄ for efficient dye degradation. Ni-doped MOF composites as supercapacitor electrodes. Nano-SiO₂ in polymer electrolytes for improved energy storage. Zn-MOF-2 design for hybrid supercapacitor applications. Structural tuning of CuNi₂O₄ for high-performance energy storage. Cu-based MOFs for supercapacitor electrodes. ZnSnN₂ nanoparticles for optoelectronic devices. MOFs in photocatalytic CO₂ reduction. CoAl₂O₄ &Ti–V nanostructures for water splitting. 16 Cambridge University Press and Assessment Centre – Linguaskill English 2025 Dr. A. Tamilselvi, Professor / English Dr. S. Subash, AP / English Cambridge University Press and Assessment, UK Linguaskill is a state-of-the-art AI-powered English testing solution International Standard Testing Skill Development Research & Innovation Industry Readiness Capacity Building 17 Centre of Excellence in British Council English 2025 Dr. A. Tamilselvi, Prof / English Dr. RS. Swarnalakshmi, AP / English British Council Education India Private  Limited. Recognized worldwide, Aptis ESOL helps institutions benchmark English language levels against the CEFR English proficiency skills – Reading, Writing, Listening, and Speaking along with a core component on Grammar and Vocabulary. 18 Centre of Excellence in Foreign Languages English 2014 Dr. G. Jeya Jeevakani AP/ English Goethe Institute, Chennai Foreign Language Programme in German and Japanese Academic & Professional Growth Cross-Cultural Competence Career Opportunities Skill Enrichment Global Readiness 19 Centre of Excellence for Youth Empowerment IT 2025 Dr.S.Muthuramalingam, Prof/IT Dr.D.Tamil Selvi, Prof/IT Dr.S.Vijayalakshmi, Prof/MCA ICT Academy Access to licensed Data Analytics software and platforms (Python, R, Tableau, Power BI, SQL, Hadoop, Spark, etc.) High-performance computing facilities for large-scale data analysis. Industry-grade datasets for hands-on projects. Training modules and certifications supported by ICT Academy Upgrade the skill sets of the student community in the emerging domain of Data Analytics through Training programs Workshops Certification Courses Provide Industry-standard tools, software, and datasets 20 Centre of Excellence in Electronic Design and Automation (EDA) Tools ECE 2025 Dr. S. Rajaram, Professor (CAS)/ECE & Registrar Dr. N. B. Balamurugan, Prof. / ECE - The establishment of EDA Tools laboratory is crucial for enhancing research and teaching capabilities, benefiting both faculty and students The lab will greatly support collaborative learning, online sessions, lab monitoring, and for high-quality technical project development 21 Centre of Excellence in Generative AI AMCS 2025 Dr. S. Parthasarathy Prof, Head & Dean (CoE&CCE) / DS, AMCS Dr. S. T. Padmapriya, AP/DS, AMCS Conversight.AI, Coimbatore • To promote academic–industry collaboration for knowledge sharing and research excellence in Generative AI and related domains. • To provide mentorship, training, and internship opportunities that enhance the technical skills and employability of students and faculty. • To organize academic programmes and knowledge dissemination activities including seminars, workshops, and one-credit courses to foster continuous learning. ConverSight.AI extends its support to faculty and students through mentorship, technical training, and industry internships, enabling the design and deployment of intelligent assistants, predictive analytics systems, cognitive automation tools, and decision-support platforms across sectors including healthcare, finance, manufacturing, and business analytics. 22 T’SPACED – Thiagarajar Centre of Excellence in Sustainable Planning, Architecture, Community and Environmental Design T’SEDA 2025 Dr. Jinu Louishidha Kitchley Prof and Head/T’SEDA Ar. S. Karthiyeya Raja, ASP/T’SEDA Mr. R. Saravana Raja, Prof/ T’SEDA Professional bodies, Government agencies, NGOs, and Industry partners T’SPACED is supported by advanced infrastructure including a Climatology Lab equipped with weather and environmental monitoring instruments (weather stations, pyrometers, anemometers, data loggers, sound level meters, and heat stress meters) and a Computer Lab with hardware such as HP Design Jet Plotter, 3D Printer, VR Headsets; Licensed software including AutoCAD 2025, Revit 2025, QGIS and Rhino 6 T’SPACED focuses on developing innovative, climate-responsive, and inclusive solutions for the built environment through four key domains: T’SPACED–ARCH, T’SPACED–DESIGN, T’SPACED–URBAN PLANNING, T’SPACED–UPSKILL 23 Bajaj Engineering Skills Training (BEST) Centre Mechatronics, Mechanical, ECE, EEE 2025 Dr.M.Meenakshi Devi, AP/ EEE Bajaj Auto Ltd Fully functional in a dedicated permanent infrastructure of nearly 1,00,000 sq.ft. TCE is contributing the infrastructure and building facilities of around Rs 20 crore and Bajaj is providing advanced equipment worth around Rs 40 crore. six verticals have been identified under this partnership: •Vertical 1 (V1): Advanced Manufacturing – Robotics & Automation •Vertical 2 (V2): Advanced Manufacturing – Industry 4.0 & IIoT •Vertical 3 (V3): Electronic Manufacturing Systems •Vertical 4 (V4): Firmware Development •Vertical 5 (V5): Electronic Reliability •Vertical 6 (V6): E-Mobility 24 Centre of Excellence in AR/VR CSE 2025 Dr. N. Shivakumar, ASP/CSE Unity Technologies •Integrate Unity software into the curriculum with 60 user license to access Unity Editor for innovative teaching and learning. •Unity offers a wide range of courses, tutorials, and pathways through its official Unity Learn platform. •Ark Infosolutions Ltd Bangalore, which is an authorized educational partner for Unity Technologies will support in conducting training programs. •To include AR and VR technologies in B.E curriculum for creating immersive experiences for any industry. •To promote research innovation and product development in AR and VR. •To develop multiplatform deployable 2D and 3D games. •Facilitate interdepartmental projects involving students and faculty across engineering domains. •To conduct workshops, training programs and hackathons to nurture technical competency among students. 25 Fuji Electri Centre of Excellence – Innovation Hub for Automation and Drives EEE 2025 Dr.M.Meenakshi Devi, AP/ EEE Fuji Electric It is equipped with an extensive range of industrial-grade components, including AC Drives, Servo Motors, Servo Amplifiers, SPH and SPE PLC modules, and WSZ I/O units To support academic laboratory sessions, student projects, research activities, and industry-oriented training programs. To facilitate workshops, internships, and collaborative projects with Fuji Electric, empowering students to work on contemporary industrial challenges and develop solutions using modern automation technologies. 26 Centre of Excellence in Artificial Intelligence CSBS 2026 Mrs. Priya Thiagarajan, AP/CSBS Cloud Destinations To empower students with future-ready skills through industry-integrated learning, hands-on experience, and innovation driven education in Artificial Intelligence and emerging technologies. The Cloud Destinations Centre of Excellence (CoE) aims to bridge the gap between academia and industry by fostering technical excellence, research, and career readiness. • To establish a Centre of Excellence that promotes experiential learning in Artificial Intelligence and emerging technologies.t. • To organize industry-led training programs, workshops, hackathons, expert talks, and certification initiatives in collaboration with Cloud Destinations. • To facilitate internships, industry projects, mentorship, and collaborative research that strengthen innovation and career readiness. • To enhance students' employability through practical skills in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, DevOps, and Data Science. 27 Centre of Excellence in Carbon Credit Technologies & Sustainable Digital Systems CSBS, EEE, Chemistry 2026 Mrs. R. Subhashni, AP/CSBS Dr. S. Karthiga, ASP/CSBS Dr. P. M. Devie, AP/EEE Dr. A. Ramalinga Chandra Sekar, AP/Chemistry HiTech Company Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Chennai The Centre aims to develop an integrated platform for campus-wide carbon footprint monitoring, carbon credit management, and sustainability analytics using IoT, Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, and Blockchain technologies. It seeks to bridge academia and industry by promoting multidisciplinary research, innovation, and practical solutions for sustainable campus development while enabling students to participate in measurable sustainability initiatives. • To establish a multidisciplinary research and innovation ecosystem in Carbon Credit Technologies and Sustainability Analytics. • To develop IoT- and AI-enabled solutions for energy, environmental, and carbon footprint monitoring. • To promote industry-supported research, student projects, internships, and skill development in sustainability technologies. • To facilitate carbon credit computation, verification, and sustainability reporting using blockchain-enabled digital platforms. Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact