 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI - 625 015 
(An Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University) 
 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 
M.ARCH. (GENERAL) DEGREE PROGRAMME 
 
CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM 
 
These Rules and Regulations are applicable to the candidates admitted from the Academic 
year 2018 – 19 onwards.  
 
1.0 PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE 
 
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
i. “Programme” means M. Arch Degree Programme         
ii. “Degree” means Post Graduate (PG) Degree that is M.Arch degree. 
iii. “Course” means a theory, or studio subject that is normally studied in a semester, like 
Contemporary Architecture theory and Practice, Architectural Design I, Dissertation etc. 
iv. “University” means Anna University, Chennai. 
 
2.0 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION: 
 
2.1. The candidates seeking admission to the programme shall require satisfying the 
eligibility norms prescribed by the Anna University and Director of Technical Education, 
Chennai, from time to time. 
 
2.2.  Candidates for admission for the first semester of the Post Graduate degree program 
shall be required to have passed an appropriate degree examination of Anna University 
(B. Arch./ AIIA *) or any other examination of any University or authority accepted by the 
Syndicate of the University as equivalent thereto. 
 
*Candidates who have qualified with AIIA and registered with Council of Architecture 
only are eligible. 
 
3.0 STRUCTURE OF PROGRAMME: 
 
3.1 Categorization of Courses 
 
Post Graduate Degree Programme (M.Arch.) will have curricul um and syllabi consisting of 
Theory courses, Elective courses, Studio Courses, Dissertation, and Thesis. These will be 
categorized as follows: 
i. Programme Core Courses (PC) courses include the core courses relevant to the chosen 
specialization/branch like Fundamentals of Design, Architectural Design etc. 
ii. Compulsory Foundation Courses  (CFC) courses provide basic foundation to the core 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
courses or supplement the core courses like Fundamentals of Architecture, Theory of 
Design etc. 
iii. Elective Foundation Courses (EFC) are foundation courses which lead to knowledge 
enhancement selected from a pool of courses under specific streams like Architecture, 
Design, Technology, Planning, Energy and Environment.  
iv. Programme Elective (PE) are courses include the elective courses relevant to the  
chosen specialization/branch. The electives from the curriculum are to be chosen with 
the approval of the Head of Department. A student may be permitted by the HOD to 
choose a maximum of one elective from other P.G. Programmes offered in th e 
institution or in any one of the other departments of the University during the period of 
his /her study, provided the Head of the Department offering such a course also agrees 
and there is no clash in the time-table for the lecture classes. 
 The distribution of credits for each category is given Table 1. 
Table1: Credit Distribution 
S.No Category  Credit 
Distribution 
1. Programme Core Courses 30 
2 Compulsory Foundation Courses 27 
3. Elective Foundation Courses  9-12 
4. Programme Elective Courses 6-12 
 Minimum Number of Credits to be earned for the award of the degree 72 
 
3.2 The curriculum and syllabi of all the programmes shall be approved by the Board of 
Studies and Academic Council. 
 
3.3 Credit Assignment 
 Each course is assigned certain number of credits based on the following: 
Table 2: Credit Assignment 
Contact period per week Credit 
1 hour Lecture Period 1 
2 hours Tutorial Periods 1 
2 hours Studio/ Practical Periods 1 
 
3.4       Number of Courses/ Credits per semester 
 
Curriculum of a semest er shall normally have a blend of theory courses and studio courses. Each 
course may have credits assigned as per clause 3.3. However, the total number of courses per 
semester shall not exceed 7 of which the studio courses shall not exceed 1. The maximum n umber of 
credits the student can register in a particular semester cannot exceed 30 Credits (including courses 
for which the student has done reappearance registration (vide clause 5.8). 
 
3.5      The Medium of instruction, examinations and project report shall be in English 
 
 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
4.0 DURATION OF THE PROGRAMMES AND SEMESTERS: 
 
4.1 The minimum period for completion of the Programme is 4 semesters and maximum 
period for completion of the Programmes is 8 semesters. 
 
4.2 The duration for the programmes shall extend over a period of four consecutive semesters 
for the candidates admitted in M.Arch. programmes 
 
4.3  Each semester normally consists of 90 working days. In any contingent situation, the 
number of working days per semester shall not be less than 65 days. The P rincipal 
is given the discretionary power to decide the number of working days. The Principal 
shall ensure that every faculty member imparts instruction as per the number of 
periods specified in the syllabus and that the faculty teaches the full content of  the 
specified syllabus for the course being taught. 
 
4.4 For the purpose of regulations, the academic year will be normally divided into two 
semesters, the odd semester normally spanning from June to November and the 
even semester from December to May. 
 
4.5 The courses in the curriculum of the Odd semesters will be conducted only in odd 
semesters and that of the even semesters only in even semesters. 
 
5.0  COURSE  REGISTRATION 
5.1 Each student on regular admission has to register courses in the range betwe en 15 and 30  
credits, including the courses for which the student has done reappearance registration and 
supplementary examination for first semester arrear courses. 
 
5.2     A student has to earn the minimum number of total credits ( 72 Credits) specified in the 
curriculum of the chosen programme of study in order to be eligible to obtain the degree.    
 
5.4    The registration for the courses of the Semesters II to IV will commence 7 working days prior to 
the last working day of the preceding semester. The student shall register for the courses with 
the guidance of the student’s Faculty Mentor. If the student wishes, the student may drop or add 
courses (vide clause 5. 1) within five working days after the commencement of the concerned 
semester and complete th e registration process.  The student is allowed to register for additional 
courses equivalent to the credit corresponding to the passed courses in revaluation.  
 
5.5  No course shall be offered by a Department unless a minimum of 25 students register for tha t 
course. 
 
5.6    After registering for a course, a student shall attend the classes, satisfy the attendance 
requirements (vide clause 6.1 and 6.2.1), earn continuous assessment marks and appear for the 
End Semester Examinations.  
 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
5.7 The student shall re gister for the Dissertation in the III semester only and Thesis in the IV 
semester only.     
 
5.8     Reappearance Registration 
 
5.8.1 If a student fails in a theory course, they shall do reappearance registration for that 
course when it is offered next. Student can opt either to retain or re -earn the 
Continuous Assessment Marks and attend the end semester  Terminal Examination. If 
a student opts for re -earning the continuous assessment marks, the earlier earned 
continuous assessment marks will be nullified.  
5.8.2 a)   If a student fails in a theory in Programme electives or Elective Foundation  
categories, he/she may register for the same course or any other course in the 
respective category. If a student registers for other course, he/she has to satisfy all the 
requirements in Clauses 6 and 9. 
  b) If a student fails in Dissertation and desires to continue with the same course, the 
student has to repeat the course when offered next.  In this case, the student shall 
attend the classes/review, satisfy the atte ndance requirements (vide clause 6),  earn 
Continuous Assessment Marks and appear for the End Semester Viva Voce Examinations. The 
facility of Reappearance Registration is not available for Dissertation. 
c)  The student who fails in any Studio Course/ Thesi s, his/her Continuous Assessment Marks is 
valid for only one subsequent attempt. After one subsequent attempt (clause 10.4. 3) the student 
shall register for the same, when offered next, and repeat  the course. In this case, the student 
shall attend the clas ses, satisfy the attendance requirements (vide clause 6), earn Continuous 
Assessment Marks and appear for the End Semester Viva -Voce Examinations. The facility of 
Reappearance Registration is not available for such courses. 
5.8.3 If a student is prevented  from taking the end semester examination of a course (theory / studio) 
due to lack of attendance, student has to register for that course again, when offered next, 
attend the classes and fulfill the attendance requirements as per clause 6. If the course, in which 
student has lack of attendance, is a Programme  Elective or an Elective Foundation Courses, 
student may register for some other Programme Elective or Elective Foundation course 
respectively in the subsequent semesters. 
5.8.4 A student who has alre ady appeared for a course in a semester and passed the examination is 
not entitled to reappear the same course for improvement of Grade/Marks. 
 
6.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE END SEMESTER EXAMINATION OF A 
COURSE  
6.1  A student who has fulfilled th e following conditions shall be deemed to be eligible to appear 
for the end semester examination. 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
  Ideally, every student is expected to attend all the classes and earn 100% attendance. 
Students who have earned not less than 75% attendance course wise tak ing into account 
the number of periods required for that course as specified in the curriculum.  
• Students who have earned attendance less than 65% will not be permitted to appear for 
End Semester Examination for that course. The student has to register and  repeat that 
particular course in a subsequent semester when it is offered next.      
• However, exemption may be given for the students who earned attendance between 65% 
and less than 75% in a particular course from the prescribed attendance requirement 
based on medical leave (hospitalization / accident / specific illness) and On Duty leave for 
participation in the College / University / State / National / International level Sports events 
(Vide clause 6.1.3) with prior approval from the Principal / competen t authority. Such 
student shall be permitted to apply for condonation to the Principal through the respective 
Head of the Department. After the approval from the principal, the student shall be 
permitted to appear for the end semester examination for that course by paying the 
prescribed fee by the Controller of Examinations of the college. However, the students 
who have represented the college in NCC/NSS/Sports are exempted from the 
Condonation. 
• His / her progress has been satisfactory and obtained bona fid e certificate in the Record of 
all the Practical courses in the semester, and  
• His / her conduct has been satisfactory. 
6.1.1  A student shall be permitted to appear for the terminal examinations only if, 
a. he/she satisfies the attendance requirements   
b. the student’s conduct has been satisfactory  
c. he/she has paid the examination fees and registered for the examinations for all the 
courses of that semester by paying the prescribed examination fees within the due date. 
If any student fails to register and pay t he examination fees within the due date, he /she 
shall not be permitted to attend the end semester examinations.  
• the prescribed fee by the Controller of Examinations of the college. However, the 
students who have represented the college in NCC/NSS/Sports are exempted from 
the Condonation. 
• His / her progress has been satisfactory and obtained bona fide certificate in the 
Record of all the Practical courses in the semester, and  
6.1.2    The students who are consistently good in academics ONLY be considered for the grant                
of ODL under co -curricular / extra -curricular activities by the competent authorities. The 
following activities shall be considered for the award of ODL: 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
• Sports and Games: TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zonal, Inter University, State level, 
National level and Open Tournaments. 
• NCC: Camps and expeditions, NSS camps 
• Cultural Programs at State, National and International level  
• Seminar / Symposia: Paper presentation / Quiz 
• Leadership course organized by other organizations & Alumni Association activities, 
Association Activities, Placement Activities 
• NASA( National Association of Students of Architecture) 
• Zonal NASA Conventions. 
• Training Programs/internship at Industries and Higher Learning Institutions 
• Personal damages incurred during the extra-curricular activities. 
• The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to the Principal through the Head of the 
Department of the student by the staff -in-charge of the respective activities before 
completion of every activity.  
• The ODL sanctioned letters shall be submitted to the Department office.  The faculty -in-
charge of the department office will check the eligibility for the award of attendance at 
the end of semester and the same may be submitted to the Head of the Department for 
approval. 
 
7.0      FACULTY  MENTOR 
To help the students in planning their courses of study and for general advice on the 
academic programme, the Head of the Department will attach a certain number of students 
(4 to 5) to a faculty member of the Department. He /she shall function as Faculty Advisor for 
these students throughout their period of study.  The faculty advisor shall  
• Advise the students in registering and reappearance registering of courses 
• Monitor their attendance, academic progress and discipline of the students 
• Counsel periodically or during the Faculty Advisor/Tutor/Proctor -ward meeting 
scheduled in the class time table. 
• Inform the students about the various facilities and activities available to enhance the 
student’s curricular and co-curricular activities. 
• If necessary, the faculty mentor may also discuss with or inform the parents about the 
progress of the students through the Head of the Department or in the parent –teacher 
meeting. 
 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
8. 0 ACADEMIC COMMITTEES 
8.1     Class Committee  
 Every class shall have a class committee consisting of faculty members handling 
courses of the concerned class, student representatives – cross section of students 
(Academically good, average, Poor) and a chairperson who is a faculty not handling 
the course for the class. T he overall goal is to improve the teaching -learning 
process. The functions of the class committee include: 
 
 Solving problems experienced by students in the classroom and in the 
laboratories. 
 Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules 
therein. 
 Informing the student representatives the academic schedule including the dates 
of assessments (Tests & Assignments) and the syllabus coverage for each 
assessment. 
 Analyzing the performance of the students of the class after each test and 
finding the ways and means of solving problems, if any 
 Identifying the weak students, if any, and requesting the faculty concerned to 
provide some additional help or guidance or coaching to such weak students. 
 
8.2 The class committee for a class is constituted by the Head of the department. 
 
8.3 The class committee shall be constituted on the first day of commencement of any 
semester. 
 
8.4 At least 3 student representatives shall be included in the class committee. 
 
8.5 The chairperson of the class comm ittee may invite the Tutor(s) and the Head of the 
department to the meeting of the class committee. 
 
8.6 The Principal may participate in any class committee of the institution. 
 
8.7 The chairperson is required to prepare the minutes of every meeting, subm it the 
same to Head of the Department within two working days of the meeting and 
arrange to circulate among the concerned students and faculty members. If there 
are some points in the minutes requiring action by the management, the same shall 
be brought to the notice of the management by the Principal. 
 
8.8 The class committee shall meet three times a semester: 
 
 The first meeting within a week from the date of commencement of the 
semester. 
 The second meeting a week after the first test results. 
 The third meeting a week before the last lecture day of the semester. 
 
8.9 During these meetings the student members representing the entire class, shall 
meaningfully interact and express the opinions and suggestions of the other 
students of the class to improve the effectiveness of the teaching-learning process. 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
 
 
9.0 SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION: 
 
9.1 M.Arch. Programme consists of Theory Courses, and Studio   Courses.   
 
Performance in each course of study  shall be evaluated based on (i) Continuous 
Assessments throughout the semester and (ii) End Semester Examination at the end of the 
semester.  
 
For Theory courses including Programme elective courses and Elective Foundation Courses, 
out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous Assessment is 50 and the End 
Semester Terminal Examination will be conducted for 100marks which will be reduced to 50 
marks.  
 
For Studio Courses like Dissertation, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous 
Assessment is 50 and the End Semester Terminal Examination (viva voce) will be conducted 
for 100marks which will be reduced to 50 marks. 
 
For Studio Courses like Architectural Design, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for 
Continuous Assessment is 60 and the End Semester Viva Voce Examination will be 
conducted for 100marks which will be reduced to 40 marks.  
 
For Architectural  Thesis shall be evaluated for a maximum of 100 marks. The maximum 
marks for Continuous Assessment is 60 and the End Semester Viva Voce Examination will 
be conducted for 100marks which will be reduced to 40 marks.  
 
The maximum marks assigned to different courses shall be as given in Table 2. 
 
S. No Categorization of 
courses 
Continuous 
Assessment  
End Semester 
Examinations/Viva 
Total marks 
1. Theory Courses 50 50 100 
2. Dissertation 50 50 100 
3. Studio Courses 60 40 100 
4. Architectural Thesis 60 40 100 
 
9.2 Assessment for Theory Courses 
 Theory courses  
Continuous Assessment comprises of two assessments, conducted by the course 
instructor / coordinator / department. One assessment will be in the form of intern al test. 
The total marks obtained in the test and the assignment  put together shall be reduced to 
50.  
The apportioning of marks shall be as follows: 
▪ 30 marks for test 
▪ 20 marks for assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini projects/site study/ field visit report 
/ working model / evaluation report / test report / drawings/construction yard exercises etc. 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
A minimum of two tests would be conducted in a day (in the case of tests and they would 
be of two hours durations each) students will not have regular classes on  the scheduled 
day of these tests. In case a student misses the assessment due to medical reasons 
(hospitalization / accident / specific illness) or due to participation in the College / 
University / State / National / International level Sports events wit h prior permission and 
approval from the Head of the Department within one week,  Re test  / Assignment 
submission may be given through the concerned course instructor. 
 
9.3 Assessment for Dissertation 
The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Dissertation sh all be carried out for 50 marks. 
Every candidate shall submit at the end of the II semester a topic approved by a 
Dissertation review committee, which shall comprise of the Dissertation Coordinator, 
Supervisor and one External member, constituted by the He ad of the Department. The 
dissertation shall be evaluated for 50 marks by the Dissertation review committee, through 
continuous assessment with a minimum of 4 reviews (including one topic selection review 
which will not be evaluated) throughout the semeste r. The External Review member will be 
appointed by the Controller of Examination from a panel recommended by the Head of the 
Department. 
 
9.4  Assessment for Studio Courses  
 
9.4.1 The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Studio Courses like Architectural Design will be 
carried out for 60 marks for the performance of the candidate in the studio projects 
throughout the semester. The number of projects and evaluation weightage for the studio 
projects shall be discussed and recommended by the Department Committee constituted by 
the Head of the Department.  
 
9.5   Assessment for Architectural Thesis 
 
Every candidate shall submit a synopsis at the end of III Semester to be approved by the 
Department Committee constituted by the Head of the Department. The thesis review 
committee constituted by the Head of the Department shall comprise of the Coordinator of 
the Thesis, one internal member, the Supervisor and minimum of one  External member. 
The Thesis shall be evaluated for 60 marks by the Thesis review committee th rough 
continuous assessment with a minimum of 5 reviews (including one topic selection review 
which will not be evaluated) throughout the semester. The External Review members will be 
appointed by the Controller of Examination from a panel recommended by t he Head of the 
Department. 
 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
9.6   Assessment for Guided Study Course  
 The syllabus of the course and mode of assessments shall be approved by the Department 
Committee constituted by the Head of the Department, Academic Council and forwarded to 
the Control ler of Examinations before the commencement of the semester. One Faculty 
member approved by the Head of the Department shall be responsible for the periodic 
monitoring and evaluation of the course.  
 
9.7 Students are prohibited from entering into the Exami nation Hall / Laboratories with any book 
or portion of book, manuscript, or paper of any description or Communicating with or copying 
from each other or communicating with anyone outside the Examination Hall / Laboratories. 
Programmable calculator and mobi le phone shall not be permitted inside the Examination 
hall / Laboratories. However, any required codebooks and data sheets / books as specified in 
the question paper will be supplied inside the Examination hall / laboratories by the office of 
the Controller of Examinations. The students are warned that any form of Malpractice will be 
dealt with severely. The punishment may be cancelling all the examinations registered by the 
student in that semester and debarring permanently from all the examinations and 
disciplinary action will be taken by the college authorities after conducting enquiry. Identity 
card of the college must be produced at the time of terminal examination. Any student fails to 
produce Identity card shall not be permitted to appear for the examination. 
 
9.8 A student can apply for revaluation of his/her semester examination answer paper in theory 
within a week from the declaration of results, on payment of a prescribed fee through proper 
application to the Controller of Examinations. The Contro ller of Examination will arrange for 
the revaluation and the results will be published before the commencement of 
supplementary examinations. Revaluation is not permitted for practical courses, project 
work and industry supported courses. 
 
9.9 Students can go through the answer script for re -totaling before they apply for revaluation 
after the publication of the results. 
 
9.10 A student can apply for revaluation of his/her semester examination answer paper in theory 
within a week from the declaration of results, on payment of a prescribed fee through proper 
application to the Controller of Examinations. The Controller of Examination will arrange for 
the revaluation and the results will be published before the commencement of 
supplementary examinations.  
 
9.11.  Revaluation is not permitted for Studio Courses like Architectural Design, Dissertation, and 
Architectural Thesis 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
 
10.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE 
The Passing requirement for a student in a course is determined statistically based on the 
analysis of the marks obtained both in Continuous Assessment and End Semester 
Examinations put together. 
 
10.1 Theory Courses 
10.1.1 For theory courses a candidate shall be declared to have passed the examination, if he / 
she secures minimum of 25 marks out of 50 in the end semester terminal examination with 
a minimum aggregate of 50 marks in continuous assessment and end semester 
examination put together. 
 10.1.2  If a student fails to secure a pass in a theory course (except Elective Foundation and 
Programme Elective) the student shall do reappearance registration for that course, when 
offered next, earn continuous assessment marks and attend the end semester 
examination.  
 
10.4 Studio Courses 
10.4.1 For Architectural Design studio courses, a candidate shall be  declared to have passed 
the examination if he / she secures an aggregate of 50 marks out of 100 obtained in the 
Continuous Assessment and End semester examination put together. The End 
Semester Examination will be conducted as Viva-Voce for the portfolio submitted by the 
candidate.   
10.4.2 For Architectural Thesis, a candidate shall be declared to have passed if he / she 
secures an aggregate of 50 marks of the total of 100 marks in the Continuous 
Assessment and the End Semester Viva Voce examination put together. 
10.4.3  If a student fails to secure a pass in examinations of studio courses comprising of 
Architectural Design/ Architectural Thesis, the student shall resubmit an improved 
portfolio/works/sheets for the subsequent viva voce examination conducte d in the 
following semester. The continuous assessment marks shall be valid for the subsequent 
attempt. 
In case, a student fails to secure a pass in the subsequent attempt also, in the studio 
courses comprising of Architectural Design/ Architectural Thesis , the student shall 
repeat when the course is offered next, secure fresh continuous assessment and submit 
the portfolio/works/sheets as in the case of a regular student. 
10.4.4      If a student fails to secure a pass in Dissertation, the student shall repeat the course again 
by re registration when offered next or he/she can register for other Elective Foundations 
courses.  
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
 
10.5 Award of Grades  
Range of Total Marks (TM) 
(Continuous assessment +Terminal Examination) 
Letter Grade Grade Point (GP) 
10090  TM
 S 10 
9080  TM
 A 9 
8070  TM
 B 8 
7060  TM
 C 7 
6050  TM
 D 6 
500  TM
 U 0 
Non-completion of a semester(Repeat course) I 0 
Withdrawal from terminal examination W 0 
Absent AA 0 


=
== N
i
i
N
i
ii
C
GPC
GPA
1
1
 
N
is the number of all courses to be registered in the particular semester,  
iGP  is the grade 
point obtained in 
thi course and 
iC is the number of c redits assigned to 
thi course. 
Cumulative GPA (CGPA) will be calculated when the student is declared to be eligible for 
the award of the degree. CGPA calculation is based on all the courses considered (vide 
clause 5.2) for the award of the degree.   
 
11.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVING TO A HIGHER SEMESTER 
 
11.1      A student of the M.Arch. shall move to the higher semester if student satisfies Semester 
completion requirements (vide clause -6) and the following conditions. 
To move to: 
(i)  III semester, a pass is required in   - Architectural Design I (Sem I) 
(ii)  IV semester, a pass is required in   - Architectural Design II (Sem II) 
 
11.2     A student shall move to the next higher semester if the student has satisfied the     
            Semester completion requirements (vide Clause 6).  
 
12.0 ISSUE OF GRADE CARD 
 
12.1   The grade card will be issued, through the head of the department every semester after the 
publication of results up to prefinal semester and a consolidated grade card will be issued 
after successful completion of all the courses and eligible for the award of degree. The 
grade card will contain the following information: 
i. The courses for which credits are earned with Course code and title 
ii. Grade obtained in each course 
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
iii. Cumulative grade point average earned during the course 
iv. Month and year of successful appearance 
 
13.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE 
 A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of the M.Arch. Degree provided   
the student has 
(a) A student seeking M.Arch degre e shall be required to undergo the prescribed courses of 
study and evaluation in the college for the specified duration and to pass all the 
examinations prescribed therefore. 
(b) He/ she should enrol for all the courses prescribed in the curriculum of the resp ective 
degree programme and earn the minimum number of credits (72 credits).  
(c) The maximum time limit for the completion of the M.Arch Degree programmes will be 4 
(FOUR) years from the date of admission to the first semester of the programme 
(d) No disciplinary action pending against the student 
 
14.0  CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED 
14.1. First class with Distinction 
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 13.0) having passed the 
examination in all registered courses  in his / her first  appearance, within THREE years 
including the authorized Break of Study of One Year, and securing a CGPA of not less than 
8.50 shall be declared to have passed in First class with distinction and should not have 
been prevented from writing end semester exa mination due to lack of attendance in any of 
the courses. The authorized break of study (vide clause 15.0) and withdrawal from the 
examination (vide clause 16.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
 
14.2. First Class 
A student who qualifies for the award of  degree (vide clause 13.0) having passed the 
examination in all the courses within THREE years including the authorized Break of Study 
of One Year and securing a CGPA of not less than 7.00 shall be declared to have passed in 
First class and should not have been prevented from writing end semester examination due 
to lack of attendance in any of the courses. The authorized break of study (vide clause 15.0) 
and withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 16.0) will not be counted as an attempt. 
 
14.3. Second Class 
All other students (not covered in 14.1 and 14.2) who qualify for the award of degree having 
passed the examination in all the courses and fulfilling the requirements given in clause 
13.0 above shall be declared to have passed in Second Class.  
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
 A student who is absent for end semester examination in a course / Architecture Thesis 
after having registered for the same shall be considered to have appeared in that (except 
approved withdrawal from end semester examination) for the purpose of classification. 
 
15.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME 
15.1.   A student is not normally permitted to break the study temporarily. However, if a student 
intends to temporarily discontinue the programme in the middle for valid reasons (such as 
accident or hospitalization due to prolonged ill health) and to rejoin the programme, he/she 
shall apply in advance to The Principal, through the Head of the Department stating the 
reasons, in any case, not later than the last lecture day, provided he/she fulfills the 
requirement in Clause 6.0. 
15.2   The student permitted to rejoin the programme after the break shall be governed by the rules 
and regulations in force at the time of rejoining. 
15.3    The duration specified for passing all the courses for the purpose of clas sification vide 
Clause 14.1 and 14.2 shall be increased by the period of such break of study permitted. 
15.4    The total period for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement of the 
first semester to which the student was admitted shall no t exceed the maximum period 
specified in clause 13.0 irrespective of the period of break of study in order that he/she may 
be eligible for the award of the degree. 
15.5   If any student is detained for want of requisite attendance, progress and good conduc t, the 
period spent in that semester shall not be considered as permitted 'Break of Study'. 
 
16. 0   PROVISION FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS 
 
16.1  A student will be permitted to withdraw in any one of the semesters except first semester 
during the entire duration of the degree programme for valid and genuine reasons by 
making an application in the office of the Controller of Examinations through the respective 
Head of the Department for withdrawal at least one day in advance of the last theory 
examination in that semester. When he / she appear subsequently, he / she have to appear 
for all the courses of that semester on registration and payment of fees. Subsequent 
appearance will not be counted as separate attempt. 
16.2  Those students who withdraw a re eligible for the award of First Class and First Class with 
Distinction as per the requirement in this regard.  However he / she will not be considered 
for ranking. 
16.3   Withdrawal is permitted ONLY ONCE during the entire duration of the degree programme. 
16.4.  Withdrawal is not permitted to the student who has not satisfied the conditions prescribed in 
clause 6.0 as requirements for appearing in the end semester examination.  
 
 
M.Arch. Regulations_CBCS_ 2018-19 onwards 
 
ADHOC Board of Studies Meeting approved on 22-05-2018                      Approved in Standing Committee Meeting on23.05.2018 
 
16.5.  Withdrawal is permitted for the end semester examinations in the fina l semester only if the 
period of study the student concerned does not exceed 5 years as per clause 14.1. 
 
17.0 DISCIPLINE 
 
17.1  Every student is required to observe discipline and decorous behavior both inside and 
outside the college and not to indulge in  any activity, which will tend to bring down the 
prestige of the college. The Principal shall constitute a disciplinary committee to enquire into 
acts of indiscipline and notify the institution about the disciplinary action recommended for 
approval. In case of any serious disciplinary action which leads to suspension or dismissal, 
then a special committee shall be constituted by the Head of the Institution for taking the 
final decision.  
17.2    If a student indulges in malpractice in any of the Examinations, the student shall be liable for 
punitive action as prescribed by the College from time to time.  
 
18.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM  
The standing committee/Academic Council of the College reserves the right to revise or 
change or amend the reg ulations, the scheme of examinations, the curriculum and the 
syllabi from time to time if found necessary. 
 
19.0 SPECIAL CASES 
 
In the event of any clarification in the interpretation of the above rules and regulations, they 
shall be referred to the Standi ng Committee.  The Standing Committee will offer suitable 
interpretations/ clarifications /amendments required for special case on such references and 
get them ratified in the next meeting of the Academic Council. The decision of the Academic 
Council is final. 