Management | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC Management Breadcrumb Home > Management Management Kalaithanthai Karumuttu Thiagarajan Chettiar 1893 - 1974 Founder Kalaithanthai Karumuttu Thiagarajan Chettiar was a great visionary with a mission. He was entrusted with the moral and social responsibility of building this institution with the objective of serving society. A staunch nationalist and a distinguished industrialist, he led a life of sacrifice. He was an exceptional educationalist with a keen focus on transforming lives through education. As a remarkable social savant, he left his footprints in the sands of time across all facets of social life. A dedicated reader, his passion for language was evident in his profound command of the Tamil language. As a generous philanthropist through his righteous deeds, he continues to live in the hearts of many. Kalaithanthai Karumuttu Thiagarajan Chettiar was a holistic personality with a spiritual aura and soul. Dr. Mrs. Radha Thiagarajan 1926 – 2013 Emeritus Chairman Dr. Mrs. Radha Thiagarajan was the first Vice Chancellor of Alagappa University and served two terms in the post. She is gifted with the gab and is considered an eminent multilingual scholar. She is acclaimed as one of the most widely respected academicians, known for her sound knowledge and intelligence. She rendered her service to society by being a member of several prestigious organizations. With a fervour for language and literature, she is a staunch patron of religious and literary scholars. Throughout all walks of her life, she has carried herself as an epitome of love and care, through her generous contributions to noble causes. Today, she is revered and admired as a respected mother figure by many. Mr. Karumuttu T.Kannan 1953 - 2023 Former Chairman & Correspondent Mr. Karumuttu T. Kannan, Chairman & Correspondent of Thiagarajar College of Engineering, holds the prestigious position of Member of the Tamil Nadu State Planning Commission, Chennai. He is also a Member of the Planning Board of Madurai Kamaraj University. Built on values and principles, he is a visionary leader with a relentless desire to serve humanity. As a dynamic industrialist and seasoned educationalist, he has over 30 years of experience in college administration. He has proven himself to be an able entrepreneurial leader and philanthropist, with an inimitable ability to steer institutions to greater heights. His passion for the arts and literature has made him a custodian of Indian culture, arts, traditions, and heritage. Mr. K. Hari Thiagarajan Chairman & Correspondent K. Hari Thiagarajan was born on 2nd August, 1988, and is the son of Sri. & Smt. Karumuttu T. Kannan and grandson of Sri & Smt. Karumuttu Thiagarajan Chettiar. Graduated from the University of Warwick, UK with a degree in Engineering Management. Managing Director of Thiagarajar Mills (P) Ltd., Madurai. Chairman & Managing Director of VTM Limited, Virudhunagar. Secretary of Thiagarajar College [Arts & Science], Madurai and Chairman & Correspondent of Thiagarajar College of Engineering,Madurai. Past Chairman of CII (Confederation of Indian Industry), Tamil Nadu State Council. Member of Entrepreneurs’ Organization, Chennai Chapter. Executive Committee Member of SIMA (The Southern India Mills’ Association), Coimbatore. He is passionate about classical Tamil literature & Sanskrit. His other interests include photography, reading, cycling & mentoring potential entrepreneurs Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact