  
 
 
 
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI -625 015 
(A Govt. Aided, Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University) 
 
Code of Conduct for Students 
 
1. Punctuality: Students must adhere to the class schedule as per the timetable or 
instructions provided. 
2. College Timings: 
S.No Details  Timings  
1.  College Working Hours  9.00 AM to 5.00 PM 
2.  Morning Break  10.40 AM to 11.00 AM 
3.  Lunch Time  12.40 PM to 1.40 PM 
4.  College Main Gate remains 
closed during 
9.15 AM to 12.40 PM  
1.40 PM to 5.00 PM 
5.  College Bus Departure Time  Evening 5.05 PM 
Evening 6.30 PM 
 
3. Identification: All students must wear their ID cards visibly while within the campus  
premises. 
4. Dress Code  
 Boys: Boys should dress neatly. Boys shall not wear “T” shirts/ baninans/ 
sleeveless shirts or shorts for classes. T shirts may be worn on casual occasions 
only. Shorts will be allowed only in the sports filed.  
 Girls :  Girl students are expected to wear saree or loose fitting trousers and 
shirts or salwar cummins with tupptta. Any other type of  tight fitting clothes, 
“T” shirts,   sleeveless shirts or shorts  shall not be worn by girls (except during 
events) 
 Uniforms (Boys): Students are informed to wear prescribed uniforms – Grey 
Shirt and Blue Pant with Black shoes during the Laboratory sessions / 
workshop sessions.   
 Uniforms ( Girls): Students are informed to wear prescribed uniforms – Grey 
Shirt and Blue Pant with Black shoes during the Laboratory sessions / 
workshop sessions. Shirts should be neatly tucked in.   
5. Library Etiquette: Silence must be maintained inside the library premises. 
6. Library  Timings: 
S.No Details  Timings  
1.  Monday to Friday 8.00 AM to 8.00 PM 
2.  Saturday 9.00 AM to 5.00 PM 
3.  Vacation Period  10.00 AM to 5.00 PM 
 
7. Central Computing Centre (CCC): The CCC will function from 8.00 AM to 8.00 PM on all 
      working days. In Saturdays, it opens from 9.00 AM to 5.00 PM. Sunday it remains closed.  
  
 
8. Classroom Protocol : No student is allowed to enter or leave the classroom without 
permission during class hours.  Usage of Mobile Phones during the class hours is strictly 
prohibited.  
9. Mass Bunking: Strict action will be taken on the students for bunking class.  
10. Communication Protocol : Requests, appeals, and complaints must be directed to the 
Class Advisor/Mentor or Head of the department initially, rather than directly to higher 
authorities. 
11. Property Damage: Students responsible for damaging college propert y will bear the cost 
of repair and may face disciplinary action. 
12. Electrical Fittings: Tampering with electrical fittings is strictly prohibited. 
13. Misconduct: Malpractice or misbehavior will result in severe disciplinary measures. 
14. Examinations: Students are informed to adhere the guidelines given by the Controller of 
Examinations (COE) for Terminal Examinations and Continuous Assessment Test (CAT). 
15. Industrial Visit/ Industry Internship : Students are informed to adhere the guidelines 
given by the Dean / Head of the Department during Industrial Visit and Industrial 
Internship. 
16. Legal Convictions: Students convicted of any offense in a court of law are not allowed to 
continue their studies in the college. 
17. Political and Communal Activities: Active participation in political parties or communal 
politics is not permitted.  Vehicles with Political flags or any other identification  traits 
shall not be allowed inside the campus 
18. Non- Association Activities: Students are not allowed to participate in any o f the 
association activities that are not related to the college. On violation, he or she will be 
suspended without enquiry.  
19. Vehicle Parking: Students should park their vehicles only in designated parking areas. 
20. Tobacco Prohibition/ Drug Usage:  The use of tobacco  in any form/Drug banned and 
declared by the Government of India within the college premises is strictly forbidden.  
21. Vandalism: Students are not allowed to write, mark, or deface walls or desks. 
22. Hostel Protocol : Students are advised not leave the hostel premises without informing 
the officials. They are also informed to follow the guidelines of the Hostel. No day scholar 
is allowed inside the Hostel premises without prior permission. 
23. Environmental Responsibility: Students must cooperate with the institution to maintain 
energy and environmental sustainability. 
 
By adhering to these guidelines, students contribute to a conducive learning environment and 
uphold the reputation of the institution. 