Women Empowerment Cell (WEC) | Thiagarajar College of Engineering Skip to main content Students Student ERP Login (CAMU) TCE Mail Statutory Committees Examinations & COE Women Empowerment Cell Faculty Faculty ERP Login (CAMU) TCENet Hrapp Login Facility Management System TCE Vehicle Booking Parents Statutory Committees CAMU – Parent Login Steps for Paying fees Online Through Eazypay Calendar Alumni IIC NBA NIRF NAAC Search Home About us About the College Vision & Mission Founder Management Administration Administration Office Statutory Committees History & Values Organizational Structure Approval & Affiliations Code of Conduct Academics Programmes Library Departments Examinations & COE Heads of the Departments Adjunct Faculty Regulations TLP @ TCE Academic Calendar Admission Programmes Offered B.E / B.Tech Admissions B.Arch Admissions B.Des Admissions M.E / M.Tech / M.C.A Admissions M.Sc (Data Science) (5 Yrs) Admissions M.Plan Admissions M.S. (By Research) and Ph.D Admissions Admissions 2026-27 Career Development Centre Overview CDC Team Placement Procedure Internship Procedure Our Recruiters Activities and Events Placements Statistics Internship Guidelines Placement Policy Contact Us Research Overview Academic Research Sponsored Research IPR Cell Innovation Awards TCE - QIP Center Research Policy Code of Ethics for Research TCE Journal Research Facilities – I – STEM TCE Seed Money Scheme Campus Life Overview Sports Hostel Life Campus Amenities Statutory Committees Women Empowerment Cell Professional Societies Counselling Division Students Club Skill Rack Capacity Development and Skill Enhancement NSS NCC YRC Best Outgoing Students Sustainability 5s Workplace Management Industry Overview Consultancy Projects Institution's Innovation Council E Cell European Business Technology Centre (EBTC) Thiagarajar Entrepreneur Network (TEN) Consultancy Policy MoU & Collaborations Standard Operating Procedure Department Brochures Download Formats Nodal Centres TS Srinivasan Centre for Automotive Research TCE EIACP RP Thiagarajar Advanced Research Centre (TARC) Centre of Excellence in Electronic Product Testing (CEEPT) ISRO-IIRS Outreach Programmes Centre for Continuing Education Centres of Excellence IQAC Women Empowerment Cell (WEC) Breadcrumb Home > Women Empowerment Cell (WEC) Women Empowerment Cell (WEC) Overview The Women Development Cell (WDC) will look after the welfare of the women employees/students, facilitate redressal of their grievances and shall cater to the issues/ grievances concerning women employees. The Cell will also conduct a survey within the organization and collect suggestions/ recommendations from women on issues concerning them so that appropriate action could be taken in the matter with a view to helping them. WDC will organize various programmes to ensure that wherever possible, the aspect of women's development is promoted through these programmes and a component for women's development is introduced in all the activities. WDC would promote all round development of women employees/students of the Institute, through Camps, Events, health care awareness, family care assistance, training for skill formation etc. Formation of Cell For gender equality and gender justice in all its intervention and practices a WDC is established in TCE as per Govt. guidelines The Cell is responsible for looking into any complaints filed by students & staff about Woman Grievances at the college. According to the Hon. Supreme Court of India definition of sexual harassment is any unwelcome sexually determined behavior, such as: Physical contact and advances Demand or request for sexual favors Sexually Colored remarks Any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature The functions of the cell are to purely safeguard the rights of female students, faculty and staff members of women and also to provide a platform for listening to complaints. The Cell also tries to incorporate hygiene habits and ensure a healthy atmosphere in and around the college. It tries to equip them with the knowledge of their legal rights and redressal of their grievances. To facilitate speedy delivery of justice, meetings are organized regularly. WDC processes oral and written complaints. Time to time the cell conducts seminars and lectures by specialists and eminent personalities to stop violence against women, sexual harassment at work and about health, hygiene etc. Objectives To resolve issues pertaining to girls’/women’s sexual harassment. To resolve issues through Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) To equip the female students, faculty and staff members with knowledge of their legal rights. To safeguard the rights of female students, faculty and staff members. To provide a platform for listening to complaints and redressal of grievances. To incorporate hygiene habits and ensure a healthy atmosphere in and around the college. To ensure personality along with academic development of students. Complaint Procedure Students report their grievance to the Tutor / HoD /WDC. A member who feels that he or she has been harassed an also approach the WDC of our College. Students can also register their complaints in the online grievance redressal portal created in our college website as per the direction of Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. Discipline Any member found to have harassed another member or guest will be subject to appropriate disciplinary procedure action, including reprimands, suspension or termination of membership. Complaint and Redressal mechanism After knowing grievance of students, class Mentor discusses it with the HOD and then an appropriate solution is found out. If not solved at this level then the grievance is taken up to the Principal and ICC through WDC. The complainant shall be summoned to hear complaints (if necessary). After hearing of complaints, the ICC shall take appropriate decision. Outcome will be informed to the complainant and to the administration / management. Members Internal Complaints Committee Sl.No Details Download 1 Minutes of the meeting 2 Members List 3 Form Click here WEC Members Sl.No Name Designation/Dept./Class Post held in Committee Staff: 1 Dr. L.Ashok Kumar Principal Chairman 2 Dr. G.Balaji Dean(Student Affairs) Vice Chairman 3 Dr. S. Vijayalakshmi Prof. Computer App Secretary 4 Dr. D. Tamil Selvi Prof. IT Presiding officer 5 Ms. H. Srivinothini Asst. Prof, Maths Join Secretary 6 Dr. G. Krishnaveni Asst. Prof. ECE Member 7 Dr. D. Brindha Prof. Civil Member 8 Dr. S. Latha Prof, EEE Member 9 Dr. L. Radha Librarian Member 10 Dr. K. Indira Asst. Prof, CSE Member 11 Ar. M. Sinduja Asst. Prof. Arch Member 12 Dr. J. Felicia Lilian Asst. Prof. CSBS Member 13 Dr. C. Mahadevi Asst. Prof. DS Member 14 Dr. M. Rajalakshmi Asst. Prof.  Mechatronics Member 15 Dr. P. Krishnapriya Asst. Prof. Maths Member 16 Dr. RS. Swarnalakshmi Asst. Prof. English Member 17 Mrs. G. Susila Clerk, Admin Office Member Students: 18 Vinotha G BE (EEE) III Year Member 19 Mahalakshmi  K B.E.(Civil) III year Member 20 Kameshwari Ka BE(ECE) III year Member 21 Shamitha S B.E (ECE) II Year Member 22 Ramya K B.E (Mech) III Year Member 23 Rakshitha BE (Mech) II year Member 24 Harinishree P BE(Mechtra) II year Member 25 Rasika K.S BE (CSE) II Year Member 26 Kavin Malar G BE (CSE) III Year Member 27 Venkatalakshmi B B.Tech (IT) III Year Member 28 Santhosini M B.Tech (CSBS) III Year Member 29 Shalini A MCA II year Member 30 Poornima  K R A MSc DS III year Member 31 Shreya M Arch III year Member Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Complaint Form Program FAQ Contact us Secretary Women Development Cell Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai- 625 015 wdc [at] tce [dot] edu Address: Women Development Cell- POSH, Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai- 625 015 EMail-Id: poshtce [at] tce [dot] edu Quick Links Mandatory Disclosure RTI _Act Statutory Committees Transcripts Help Desk Payments Terms & Conditions Explore Career Campus Life Institute Newsletter Campus Map TCE AICTE Idea Lab Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai - 625 015 Tamil Nadu, India +91 452 2482240 www.tce.edu TCE MOOCs | TCE Courses | TBI | Downloads | Contact