                                                                                  
 
 
Workshop On Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) And IP Management For Start Up 
Quarter  - 3
Theme Workshop 
Activity Name Workshop on Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) and IP management for start 
up 
Mode of Conduct Online 
Time One hour 
Participants • Students: 104 
• Faculty: 22 
Description  
TCE, IPR Cell in association with Institute Innovation Council of our college has 
organized an IPR awareness program with RGNIIPM under National Intellectual 
Property Awareness Mission (NIPAM), a government initiative on April 5th 2023.  The 
resource person of this programme is Mrs Pooja Vishal Maulikar, Examiner of Patents 
and Designs. 
 
The workshop mainly focused on: 
 
- Giving broad idea about IPR and its importance. 
- Giving idea about requirement, criteria and rules for patent and design 
filing. 

 
 
            Short Profile of Speaker Photo of Speaker 
• POOJA VISHAL MAULIKAR is working in  Central  
Government Office under the Patent Office, Ministry of 
Commerce & Industry and presently working as 
Examiner of Patents and Designs (Group A Gazetted 
Officer)   
• She is examining the national & international Patent 
applications from IPO Mumbai,  
• She has done B.Tech, Industrial Biotechnology and M.E. 
Biochemical Engg and Biotechnology. 
• Faculty for various intellectual property training at 
RGNIIPM. 
• She has been a part of various judicial, national and 
international training programmes regarding IPR 
practices. 
• She is also working as Central Public Information Officers 
at RGNIIPM Nagpur. RGNIIPM Nagpur is only Central 
Government National IPR Training Institute in India. 
• Previously, She has also work ed as Drawing and 
Disbursing Officer at RGNIIPM, Nagpur, Faculty at  
Dept. of Biotechnology., MANIT, Bhopal and  Dept. of 
Food Tech, DOT, Shivaji University, Kolhapur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
    
 
 


THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In recognition of active participation in the  National Intellectual Property
Awareness Mission (NIPAM)  launched by the Government of India on the
occasion of the 75th anniversary of independence under the banner   "Azadi
Ka Amrit Mahotsav"  to create widespread awareness on Intellectual Property
Rights (IPR). The exceptional contribution in successfully organizing the
awareness programme on April 05, 2023 in association with RGNIIPM,
Nagpur by providing your valuable time and support is highly appreciated.
Solicit your continued support for outreach of IPR far and wide.
Date: May 03, 2023
 
 