                                                                                      Approved by Research Ethics Committee on 13.08.2025 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                      Approved by Research Ethics Committee on 13.08.2025 
 
 
THIAGARAJAR COLLGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI – 625015 
(A Gove. Aided Autonomous Institution Affiliated to Anna University) 
MADUARI 625 015 
 
Research Ethics Committee Approval Request Form 
 
Approval Request form for circulating Google Forms involving human data, under the purview of 
the Research Ethics Committee. 
 
From:                                                                                                              
 
 
Subject: Ethics Approval Request – Circulation of Google Form for Human Participant Survey 
 
For the project mentioned below, we intend to collect data involving human participants. The 
details of the participants required for the study are also provided. 
Project Information  
Project Title 
 
Principal Investigator: Name, Designation & 
Department 
 
Co-Investigators: Name, Designation & 
Department 
 
Study Duration 
 
Funding Source 
 
 
Details of Participants 
Target Population  
No. of Participants  
 
I hereby assure that I will adhere to the Ethical Considerations outlined below. 
➢ Participants will be informed about the study and consent 
➢ Data will be securely stored 
➢ Sensitive questions or vulnerable groups will be avoided 
➢ Google Form Link used is: ____________ 
 
I also assure that no personal data will be collected, and all Google Form responses will be securely 
exported to a password -protected spreadsheet. The survey will include demographic and 
professional background information, along with Likert -scale items a nd open -ended questions 
designed to assess perceptions and practices. Clear “Prefer not to say” options and the ability to 
skip non-essential items will be provided to ensure respondent comfort and autonomy. 
I hereby confirm that this study will strictly adhere to all institutional and national ethical 
guidelines governing human research. I respectfully request the Committee’s approval to proceed 
with the Google Form survey as outlined above. 
 
Date:                                                                                                             Signature 