THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)
MADURAI – 625 015
REGULATIONS 2024
For
M.Plan (Urban Planning) DEGREE PROGRAMME
For the students admitted from the academic year 2024-2025 onwards
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)
MADURAI – 625 015
REGULATIONS 2024
For
M.Plan (Urban Planning) DEGREE PROGRAMME
For the students admitted from the academic year 2024-2025 onwards
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
(A Government Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)
MADURAI – 625 015
REGULATIONS 2024
For
M.Plan (Urban Planning) DEGREE PROGRAMME
For the students admitted from the academic year 2024-2025 onwards
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
2
THIAGARAJAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI - 625015
(A Govt. Aided Autonomous Institution affiliated to Anna University)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
M.PLAN (Urban Planning) DEGREE PROGRAMME
(CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM)
These Rules and Regulations are applicable to the candidates admitted from the Academic year
2024-2025 onwards
1.0 PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
i. “Programme” means M. Plan (Urban Planning) Degree Programme
ii. “Degree” means Post Graduate (PG) Degree that is M.Plan degree.
iii. “Course” means theory, theory cum studio (skill based), and studio subjects that
are normally studied in a semester , like Economic Perspectives on Urb an
development, Urban Dynamics and Analysis, etc.
iv. “University” means Anna University, Chennai.
2.0 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION:
2.1. The candidates seeking admission to the first semester of the Postgraduate Degree
programme shall require satisfying the eligibility norms prescribed by the Affiliating University
and Director of Technical Education, Chennai, from time to time.
2.2. Candidates seeking admission to the first semester of the Postgraduate Degree
Programme shall be required to have passed Bachelor Degree in Planning/ Architecture/ Civil
Engineering or Passed Master Degree of Geography/ Economics/ Social Sciences or equivalent
Degree Examination of Anna University or any other examination of any University or authority
accepted by the University as equivalent thereto.
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
3
3.0 STRUCTURE OF THE PROGRAMME:
3.1 Categorization of Courses
M.Plan Degree Programme shall have a curriculum comprising Theory courses, Theory cum
Studio (skill based) courses and Studio courses. The courses are categorized as follows:
A. Professional Core Courses (PCC) are Studio courses re levant to the chosen
specialization/branch.
B. Compulsory Foundation Courses (CFC) are theory and theory cum studio (skill
based) courses that provide basic foundation to the core courses or supplement the
core courses like Economic Perspectives on Urban deve lopment, Quantitative
analysis, etc
C. Elective Foundation Courses (EFC) are theory and theory cum studio (skill based)
courses which lead to knowledge enhancement, selected from a pool of courses under
specific streams.
D. Programme Elective (PE) are theory an d theory cum studio (skill based) courses
which include the elective courses relevant to the chosen specialization/branch. The
electives from the curriculum are to be chosen with the approval of the Head of the
School.
E. Audit Courses (AC) includes the courses that help in value additions and personality
development such as Constitution of India etc. Students shall register at least any one
of the Mandatory Audit courses as and when offered. Courses such as Constitution of
India, Essence of Indian Traditiona l Knowledge, Yoga, Value education, Stress
Management and Personality Development through Life Enlightenment Skills, etc,
which are mandated by AICTE/UGC shall be registered by the student as and when
offered.
The distribution of credits for each category is given in Table 1.
Table1: Credit Distribution
S.No Category Credit Distribution
A. Professional Core Courses (PCC) 54
B Compulsory Foundation Courses (CFC) 26
C. Elective Foundation Courses (EFC) 4D. Programme Elective (PE)
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
4
E. Audit Courses (AC ) (not to be included in CGPA) -
Mandatory
-
Min number of Credits to be earned for the award of
the degree
84
3.2 Credit Assignment
Each course is assigned certain number of credits based on the following:
Table 2: Credit Assignment
Contact period per week Credit
1 Lecture Period 1
1 Tutorial Period 0
1 Studio/ Practical Periods 1
3.3      Number of Courses/ Credits per semester
Curriculum of a semester shall normally have a blend of theory courses, theory cum studio (skill
based) and studio courses. Each course may have credits assigned as per clause 3.2.
However, the total number of courses pe r semester shall not exceed 6. The maximum number
of credits the student can register in a particular semester cannot exceed 28 credits (excluding
courses for which the student has done reappearance registration (vide clause 5.7).
3.4 Online Courses
Students may be permitted to regist er for online courses approved by th e School committee
(which are provided with a certificate after evaluation of the performance), during the firs t to
third semester of his/her study with the prior approval of the Department Committee nominated
by the Hea d of the School and approval from Academic Council. On successful completion of
the course, he/she has to submit the copy of the certificate to th e Head of the School f or
exemption from registering for an elective course. Based on the recommendation by the team of
faculty members nominated by the Head of the School, the student will be awarded grade and
credits, maximum 2, in Programme Elective category. The recommendati on will be sent to The
Controller of Examinations after the approval by the Head of the School.
3.5 The medium of instruction, examinations and project report shall be in English.
4.0 DURATION OF THE PROGRAMMES
4.1 The minimum period for completion of the Programme is 2 years (4 semesters) and
maximum period for completion of the Programmes is 4 years (8 semesters).
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
5
4.2 Each semester normally consists of 90 working days. In any contingent situation, the
number of working days per semester shall not be less than 65 days. The Principal is given the
discretionary power to decide the number of working days. In such contingencies, the Principal
shall ensure that every faculty member imparts instruction as per the number of periods
specified in the syllabus and that the faculty teaches the full content of the specified syllabus for
the course being taught.
4.3 For the purpose of regulations, the academic year will be divided into two semesters, the
odd semester normally spanning from June to November and the even semester from
December to May.
4.4 The total duration for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement
of the first semester to which the student was admitted shall n ot exceed the maximum duration
specified in Clause 4.1 irrespective of the period of Break of Study (vide clause 16) or
prevention in order that the student may be eligible for the award of the degree (vide clause 14).
4.5 The courses in the curriculum of the odd semesters will be conduc ted only in odd
semesters and that of the even semesters only in even semesters.
5.0 COURSE REGISTRATION
5.1 Each student, on regular admission, shall be assigned to a Faculty Mentor (vide clause
7) who shall advice and counsel the student about the details of the academic programme and
the choice of courses considering the student’s academic background and career objectives.
5.2 Each student on regular admission has to register courses in the range between 20 to
28 credits, including the courses for which the student has done reappearance registration and
supplementary examination.
5.3 A student has to earn the minimum number of 84 Credits specified in the curriculum of
the chosen programme of study in order to be e ligible to obtain the degree. However, a student
can earn more than the number of credits, if he/she wishes. In such cases, the highest grades
in the relevant category would be considered for CGPA calculation.
5.4 The registration for the courses from I I Semesters will commence three days after the
declaration of the examination results of the preceding semester. The student shall register for
the courses with the guidance of the student’s Faculty Mentor. If the student wishes, the student
may drop or add courses (vide clause 5.2) within five working days after the commencement of
the concerned semester and complete the registration process.
5.5 No course shall be offered by a School unless a minimum of 8 students register for that
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
6
course.
5.6 After registering for a course, a student shall attend the classes, satisfy the attendance
requirements (vide clause 6), earn Continuous Assessment marks and appear for the Terminal
Examinations.
5.7 Reappearance Registration
5.7.1 a) If a student fails in a theory course or theory cum studio (skill based) they shall do
reappearance registration for that course in the subsequent semester by retaining the
continuous assessment marks already earned, for the next two attempts. For further attempts,
only the marks earned in the supplementary examination will be considered for passing the
course as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations (Minimum Marks for Pass).
b) If a student is prevented from taking the Terminal examination of a course
(theory / theory cum stu dio / studio) due to lack of attendance, student has to register for that
course again, when offered next, attend the classes and fulfil the attendance requirements as
per clause 6.
5.7.2 a) If a student fails in  Programme electives or Elective Foundatio n categories, he/she
may register for the same course or any other course in the respective category in the
subsequent semesters. If a student registers for another course, he/she has to satisfy all the
requirements in Clauses 6 and 9.
b) If the course, in which student has lack of attendance, is a Programme  Elective
or an Elective Foundation Courses, students may register for the same or other Programme
Elective or Elective Foundation course respectively in the subsequent semesters.
5.7.3 a) If a student is prevented to take the Terminal Examination in the form of viva-voce of a
Professional Core Course (Studio courses) due to lack of attendance, the student cannot
register for the Professional Core Course of the subsequent semester until he/she regis ters for
the course again when offered next, attend the classes & fulfil the attendance requirement as
per clause 6.
b) If a student attends and fails in the End semester examination of a studio course,
he/she shall attend the end semester examination again within 60 days from the date of
declaration of the results. The subsequent viva -voce examination will be considered as
reappearance with payment of exam fee. In case, the student fails in the subsequent viva -voce
examination also, the student shall redo the course again, when offered next.
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
7
c) If a student has submitted the studio project report but is absent in the end semester
examination of project work, the student is deemed to have failed. He/she shall adhere to
Clause 5.7.3 b (above).
5.7.4 A student who has already appeared for a course in a semester and passed the
examination is not entitled to reappear the same course for improvement of Grade/Marks.
6.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEARING FOR THE TERMINAL EXAMINATION OF A
COURSE
6.1 A student who has fulfilled the following conditions shall be deemed to be eligible to
appear for the Terminal examination.
● Ideally, every student is expected to attend all the classes and earn 100% attendance.
Students who have earned not less than 75% attendance in all the courses taking into
account the number of periods required for that course as specified in the curriculum.
● Students who have earned attendance less than 75% will not be permitted to appear for
terminal examinations for that course. The student has to register and repeat that
particular course in a subsequent semester when it is offered next. However, exemption
may be given for the students who earned attendance between 65% and less than 75%
in a particular course from the prescribed attendance r equirement based on medical
leave (hospitalization / accident / specific illness) and On Duty leave for participation in
the College / University / State / National / International level Sports events (Vide clause
6.3) with prior approval from the Principa l / competent authority. Such students shall be
permitted to apply for condonation to the Principal through the Head of the School. After
the approval from the principal, the student shall be permitted to appear for the terminal
examinations for that cours e by paying the prescribed fee. However, the students who
have represented the college in NCC/NSS/Sports are exempted from the condonation
fee.
● His / her conduct has been satisfactory.
6.2 A student shall be permitted to appear for the terminal examinations only if,
a. he/she satisfies the attendance requirements
b. the student’s conduct has been satisfactory
c. He/she has paid the examination fees and registered for the examinations for all the
courses of that semester by paying the prescribed examination fees within the due
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
8
date specified by the Office of the Controller of Examinations. If any student fails to
register and pay the examination fees within the due date, he /she shall not be
permitted to attend the terminal examinations. However, he/she will be permitted to
continue their studies in the next higher semester, provided that the student should
satisfy the requirements as stipulated in this clause 6.0 of this regulations and to
write the current semester courses and arrear courses if any, in the next
supplementary examination as arrear courses on registration and payment of fees. It
will be counted as an attempt for the student.
6.3 The students who are consistently good in academics ONLY are considered for the grant
of ODL under co -curricular / extra -curricular activities by the competent authorities. The
following activities shall be considered for the award of ODL:
● Sports and Games: TIES, Inter collegiate, Inter Zonal, Inter University, State level,
National level and Open Tournaments.
● NCC: Camps and expeditions, NSS camps
● Cultural Programs at State, National and International level
● Seminar / Symposia: Paper presentation / Quiz
● Leadership course organized by other organizations & Alumni Association activities,
Association Activities, Placement Activities
● National and International Co curricular activities
● Training Programs/internship at Industries and Higher Learning Institutions
● Personal damages incurred during the extra-curricular activities.
● The ODL requisition letter shall be forwarded to the Principal through the Head of the
School of the student by the staff-in-charge of the respective activities before completion
of every activity.
● The ODL sanctioned letters shall be submitted to the School office.  The faculty -in-
charge of the School office will check the eligibility for the award of attendance at the
end of semester and the same may be submitted to the Head of the School for approval.
6.4 Those students who are not deemed to have completed the semester with reference to
the conditions specified above shall undergo the semester again in all the courses in the
respective semester during next academic year.
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
9
7.0      FACULTY MENTOR
To help the students in planning their courses of study and for general advice on the academic
programme, the Head of the School will assign a certain number of students (Maximum 20 to
25) to a faculty member of the School. He /she shall function as Faculty Advi sor for these
students throughout their period of study.  The faculty advisor shall
● Advise the students in registering and reappearance registering of courses
● Monitor their attendance, academic progress and discipline of the students
● Counsel periodically or during the Faculty Advisor/Tutor/Proctor -ward meeting scheduled
in the class time table.
● Inform the students about the various facilities and activities available to enhance the
student’s curricular and co-curricular activities.
● If necessary, the faculty mentor may also discuss with or inform the parents about the
progress of the students through the Head of the School or in the Parent –Teacher
meeting.
8. 0 ACADEMIC COMMITTEES
8. 1 CLASS COMMITTEE
The objective of the Class Committee is to improve the teaching-learning process. The functions
of the class committee include:
● Resolving difficulties experienced by students in the classroom and in the studio/
laboratories.
● Clarifying the regulations of the degree programme and the details of rules therein.
● Discussing the progress of academic schedule and deviations if any.
● Evaluating the performance of the students of the class after each test and finding the
ways and means of improvement.
● From the first semester onwards, the Class committee comprises all the faculty
members who are handling courses in that particular semester and comprising a
minimum of five student representatives. A chairperson who is a faculty not handling a
course for that particular semester, nominated by the Head of the School, shall
coordinate the activities of this committee.
● The class committee shall be constituted by the Head of the School/Chief Tutor on the
first week of commencement of the semester.
● The class committee shall meet three times in a semester as specified i n the academic
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
10
calendar:
● The Principal/ Dean/ Head of the School may participate in any class committee of the
institution.
● During these meetings, the representative of the class shall meaningfully interact and
express the opinions and suggestions of the other students of the class to improve the
effectiveness of the teaching-learning process.
● The Chairperson is required to prepare the minutes of the meeting, signed by the
members and submit the same to the Head of the School within five working days of th e
meeting. The Head of the School will in turn consolidate and forward the same to the
Principal, within 10 working days of the meeting.
● In each meeting, the action taken report of the previous meeting is to be presented by
the Chairperson of the class committee.
8.2 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE
The Performance Assessment Committee comprises the Head of the School / Course
Coordinators / Course faculty members and Programme Coordinator, nominated by the Head of
the School. This committee shall meet to assess the attainment of Course Outcomes and
Program Outcomes, progress and status of the students of the semester concerned at the
beginning and end of the semesters. The committee can invite Faculty mentors and students as
invitees.
9.0 SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION:
9.1 The M.Plan Programme consists of Theory Courses, Theory Cum Studio (skill based)
Courses and Studio Courses. Performance in each course of study shall be evaluated based on
(i) Continuous Assessments throughout the semester and (ii) Terminal Examination at the end
of the semester.
9.1.1 For Theory courses including Programme elective courses and Elective Foundat ion
Courses, out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous Assessment is 40 and the
Terminal Examination will be conducted for 100 marks which will be reduced to 60 marks.
9.1.2 For Theory Cum Studio (Skill Based) courses out of 100 marks, the maximu m marks for
Continuous Assessment is 50 and the Terminal Examination (Viva -Voce) will be conducted for
100 marks which will be reduced to 50 marks.
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
11
9.1.3 For Studio Courses out of 100 marks, the maximum marks for Continuous Assessment
is 60 and the Termina l Examination (Viva-Voce) will be conducted for 100 marks which will be
reduced to 40 marks.
The maximum marks assigned to different courses shall be as given in Table 4.
Table 3: Assessment Pattern
S. No Categorization of
courses
Continuous
Assessment
Terminal
Examinations/Viva
Total
marks
1. Theory Courses 40 60 100
2. Theory Cum Studio
Courses (Skill Based)
50 50 (Viva) 100
3. Studio Courses 60 40 (Viva) 100
9.2 Students are prohibited from entering into the Examination Hall / Laboratories with any
book or portion of book, manuscript, or paper of any description or Communicating with or
copying from each other or communicating with anyone outside the Examination H all /
Laboratories. Programmable calculators and mobile phones shall not be permitted inside the
Examination hall / Laboratories. However, any required codebooks and data sheets / books as
specified in the question paper will be supplied inside the Examina tion hall / laboratories by the
office of the Controller of Examinations. The students are warned that any form of Malpractice
will be dealt with severely. The punishment may be cancelling all the examinations registered by
the student in that semester and debarring permanently from all the examinations and
disciplinary action will be taken by the college authorities after conducting enquiry.
9.3 Identity card of the college must be produced at the time of terminal examination. Any
student fails to produce an Identity card / Hall ticket shall be levied a spot fine by the Chief
superintendent/ Examiners.
9.4 A student can apply for revaluation of his/her semester examination answer paper in theory
within three working days from the declaration of results, on payment of a prescribed fee as
specified by the Controller of Examinations from time to time. The Cont roller of Examination will
arrange for going through the answer scripts by the students and to make appeals. The
reassessment results will be published before the commencement of supplementary
examinations. Reassessment is not permitted for Studio Courses, Theory cum Studio (Skill
Based) Courses and Online Courses.
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
12
10 PROCEDURE FOR AWARDING MARKS FOR CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT
10.1 Assessment for Theory Courses
10.1.1 The internal assessment of Theory courses will be carried out in the form of two
assessments: written test and assignments (Individual assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini
projects/site study/ field visit report / working model / evaluation report / test report /
drawings/construction yard exercises).
Each internal assessment is to be conducted f or 100 marks and will have to be
distributed in two parts: Assignments and tests with each having a weightage of 60% and 40%
respectively.
a. Two internal tests each carrying 40 marks shall be conducted during the semester.
The tests shall be in written mode.
b. Two internal assignments each carrying 60 marks shall be conducted as a part of
continuous assessment.
The total marks obtained in all assessments put together out of 200*, shall be
proportionately reduced for 40 marks and rounded to the nearest integer (This also implies
equal weightage to the two assessments).
Assessment Test
1 (Written Test)
Assessment
Test 2 (Written
Test)
Individual assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini
projects/site study/ field visit report / working
model / evaluation report / test report /
drawings/construction yard exercises
Total
40 40 60 60 100%
*The weighted average shall be converted into 40 marks for internal Assessment.
10.1.2 Students will have regular classes on the assessment days of these tests. In case a
student misses the assessment due to medical reasons (hospitalization / accident / specific
illness) or due to participation in the College / University / State / National / International level
Sports events with prior permission from the Chairman, Sports Board, a Reassessment may be
given at the end of the semester after getting approval from the Head of the School by the
concerned course instructor.
10.2 Assessment for Theory cum Studio (Skill Based) Courses
10.2.1. The internal assessment of Theor y cum studio (Skill Based) courses will be carried out
in the form of two assessments. Each internal assessment is to be conducted for 100
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
13
marks in the form of assignments (Individual assignments /tutorials /seminars /mini
projects /site study/ field visit report / working model / evaluation report / test report /
drawings/construction yard exercises etc) for a maximum of 100 marks. The total marks
obtained in the assessments will be conducted as internal viva-voce.
Assessment Test 1
(Individual assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini
projects/site study/ field visit report / working
model / evaluation report / test report /
drawings/construction yard exercise)
Assessment Test 2
(Individual assignments/tutorials/seminars/mini
projects/site study/ field visit report / working
model / evaluation report / test report /
drawings/construction yard exercise)
Total
50 50 100%
*The weighted average shall be converted into 50 marks and rounded to the nearest
integer for internal Assessment.
10.2.2. For the Theory cum studio (Skill Based) courses Terminal Examination shall be
conducted in the form of a viva -voce examination at the end of the semester by an
internal and external examiner appointed by the Controller of Examination from a panel
recommended by the Head of the School.
10.3 Assessment for Studio Courses
The Continuous Assessment evaluation for Studio Courses will be carried out for 60
marks for the performance of the candidate in the studio projects throughout the
semester. The total marks obtained in the continuous assessments put together shall be
reduced to 60 marks and rounded to the nearest integer. The number of projects and
evaluation weightage for the studio projects shall be discussed and recommended by
the School Committee constituted by the Head of the School.
10.4 Assessment for Planning Research Project
Every candidate shall submit a synopsis at the end of III Semester to be approved by the
School Committee constituted by the Head of the School. The Planning Research
Project review committee constituted by the Head of the School shall comprise of the
Coordinator of the Planning Research Project, the Supervisor and one External Review
member/Visiting faculty. The Planning Research Project shall be evaluated for 100
marks by the Planning Research Project review committee through continuous
assessment with a minimum of 5 reviews (including one topic selection review which
may be online and will not be evaluated) throughout the semester. The total marks
obtained in the five assessments put together shall be reduced to 60 marks and rounded
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
14
to the nearest integer. The External Review members will be appointed by the Controller
of Examination from a panel recommended by the Head of the School. Terminal
Examination shall be conducted in the form of a viva -voce examination at the end of the
IV semester by the Externa l Examiners appointed by the Controller of Examination from
a panel recommended by the Head of the School.
10.5 Revaluation is not permitted for Studio Courses and Skill based Theory cum Studio
Courses.
11.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR PASS IN EACH COURSE
The Passing requirement for a student in a course is determined statistically based on
the analysis of the marks obtained both in Continuous Assessment and Terminal
Examinations put together.
11.1 Theory Courses
11.1.1 A student who secures not less than 50% of total marks prescribed for the course
[Internal Assessment + Terminal Examinations] with a minimum of 45% of the marks
prescribed for the Terminal Examination, shall be declared to have passed the course
and acquired the relevant number of credits.
11.1.2 If a student fails to secure a pass in a theory course (including elective theory course)
the student shall register and appear only for the Terminal examination in the
subsequent semester. In such cases, the internal assessment marks obtained by the
student in the first appearance shall be retained and considered valid for two subsequent
attempts till the student secures a pass. However, from the third attempt onwards if a
student fails to obtain pass marks (Internal Assessment + Terminal Examination) as p er
clause 11.1.1, then the student shall be declared to have passed the examination if
he/she secures a minimum of 50% marks prescribed for the Terminal examinations
alone.
11.2 Theory cum Studio (Skill Based) Courses
11.2.1 Terminal Examination shall be c onducted in the form of a viva -voce examination at the
end of the semester by an internal and external examiner appointed by the Controller of
Examination from a panel recommended by the Head of the School for 100 Marks which
shall be reduced to 50 Marks.
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
15
11.2.2 For Theory cum Studio (Skill Based) courses a candidate shall be declared to have
passed the examination, if he / she secures minimum of 45 marks out of 100 in the
Terminal Examination (viva-voce) with a minimum aggregate of 50 marks out of 100 in
continuous assessment and Terminal Examination put together.
11.2.3 A student who is absent or has failed in the Terminal Examinations viva -voce in any
Theory cum studio (Skill Based) courses is permitted to appear for supplementary
examination by retainin g the Continuous Assessment already earned in the next two
attempts. For further attempts, only the marks earned in the supplementary examination
will be considered for passing the course as prescribed in the Scheme of Examinations
(Minimum Marks for Pass).
11.3 Studio Courses
11.3.1 For studio courses, a candidate shall be declared to have passed the examination if he /
she secured an aggregate of 50 marks out of 100 obtained in the Continuous
Assessment and Terminal examination put together. The Terminal Examination (Viva -
Voce) will be conducted for the portfolio submitted by the candidate.
a) If a student attends and fails in the End semester examination of a studio course, he/she
shall attend the end semester examination again within 60 days from the date of
declaration of the results. The subsequent viva -voce examination will be considered as
reappearance with payment of exam fee. In case, the student fails in the subsequent
viva-voce examination also, the student shall redo the course again, when offered next;
attend classes, secure continuous assessment marks and submit the
portfolio/works/sheets as in the case of a regular student as per vide clause 6 and 9.
b) If a student has submitted the studio project report but is absent in the end semester
examination of project work, the student is deemed to have failed. The student shall
abide as in clause 11.3.1 a.
11.4 Award of Grades
The award of letter grades will be decided using relative grading principle. The
performance of a student will be reported using letter grades, each carrying certain
points as detailed below:
Letter Grade Grade Point (GP)
O (Outstanding) 10
A + (Excellent) 9
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
16
A (Very Good) 8
B + (Good) 7
B (Average) 6
C (Satisfactory) 5
RA (Re-appearance) 0
SA (Shortage of Attendance) 0
W (Withdrawal) 0
A student is deemed to have passed and acquired the corresponding credits in a particular
course if he/she obtains any one of the following grades: “O”, “A+”, “A”, “B+”,“B”, “C”.
‘SA’ denotes shortage of attendance (as per clause 6.1) and hence prevented from writing the
Terminal examination. ‘SA’ will appear only in the result sheet.
“RA” denotes that the student has failed to pass in that course.
“W” denotes withdrawal from the exam for the particular course.
● The grades RA and W will figure both in the Grade Sheet as well as in the Result Sheet.
In both cases, the student has to appear for the Terminal examination as per the
Regulations.
● If the grade RA or W is given to Theory courses (including Elective Theory Courses) and
Theory cum Studio (Skill Based) Courses, it is not required to re-attend the classes (vide
clause 6) but the student has to appear for the Terminal examination and fulfill the norms
specified in Clause 11 to earn a pass in the respective courses.
● If the grade RA or W is given to Studio Courses, the procedure to be followed will be as
per Clause 11.3.
12.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVING TO A HIGHER SEMESTER
12.1 A student of the M.Plan shall move to the higher semester if he/she satisfies Semester
completion requirements as per vide clause 11 and the following conditions.
To move to:
(i) II Semester, a pass is required in the Studio/ Project Core Course of Semester I as
per vide clause 11.3
(ii) III Semester, a pass is required in the Studio/ Project Core Course of Semester II a s
per vide clause 11.3
(iii) IV Semester, a pass is required in the Studio/ Project Core Course of Semester III as
per vide clause 11.3
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
17
13.0 ISSUE OF GRADE CARD
13.1 The consolidated grade card will be issued, through the Head of the school, when the
student is declared to be eligible for the degree. The consolidated grade card will contain the
following information:
(i) The courses for which credits are earned
(ii) Grade obtained in each course
(iii) Cumulative grade point average earned during the course
(iv) Month and year of successful appearance
(v) Course code and title
13.2 Grade Card will be issued at the end of each semester examinations. The Grade Card will
contain the following information:
(i) The credits registered and earned in the particular semester
(ii) Grade obtained in each course
(iii) Grade point average earned in the particular semester
(iv) Cumulative grade point average earned until the semester.
(v) Course code and title
14.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF DEGREE
A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of the M.Plan. Degree provided
a. A student seeking M. Plan degree shall be required to undergo the prescribed
courses of study and evaluation in the college for the specified duration and to pass
all the examinations prescribed therefore.
b. He/ she should register for all the courses prescribed in the curriculum of the
respective degree programme, fulfill the requirement of credits in each category of
credit dis tribution, pass in all mandatory courses in the curriculum and earn the
minimum number of 84 credits.
c. The maximum time limit for the completion of the M.Plan Degree programmes will be
4 (FOUR) years from the date of admission to the first semester of the programme
d. No disciplinary action pending against the student
15.0 CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE AWARDED
15.1. First class with Distinction
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having passed the
examination in all registered courses in his / her first appearance, within THREE years including
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
18
the authorized Break of Study of One Year, and securing a CGPA of not les s than 8.50 shall be
declared to have passed in First class with distinction and should not have been prevented from
writing Terminal examination due to lack of attendance in any of the courses. The authorized
break of study (vide clause 16.0) and withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 17.0) will not
be counted as an attempt.
15.2. First Class
A student who qualifies for the award of degree (vide clause 14.0) having passed the
examination in all the courses within THREE years including the authorized Break of Study of
One Year and securing a CGPA of not less than 6.50 shall be declared to have passed in First
class and should not have been prevented from writing Terminal examination due to lack of
attendance in any of the courses. The authorized break of study (vide clause 16.0) and
withdrawal from the examination (vide clause 17.0) will not be counted as an attempt.
15.3. Second Class
All other students (not covered under clause 15.1 and 15.2) who qualify for the award of
degree having passed the examination in all the courses and fulfilling the requirements given in
clause 14.0 above shall be declared to have passed in Second Class.
A student who is absent for Terminal examination in a course / Planning Research
Project after having registered for the same shall be considered to have appeared in that
(except approved withdrawal from Terminal examination) for the purpose of classification.
16.0 TEMPORARY BREAK OF STUDY FROM A PROGRAMME
16.1.   A student is not normally permitted to break the study temporarily. However, if a student
intends to temporarily discontinue the programme in the middle for valid reasons (such as
accident or hospitalization due to prolonged ill health) and to rejoin the programme, he/she shall
apply in advance to The Principal, through the Head of the School stating the reasons, in any
case, not later than the last lecture day, provided he/she fulfils the requirement in Clause 6.0.
16.2 The student permitted to rejoin the programme after the break shall be governed by the
rules and regulations in force at the time of rejoining.
16.3 The total period for completion of the programme reckoned from the commencement of
the first semester to which the student was admitted shall not exceed the maximum period
specified in clause 4.0 irrespective of the period of break of study in order th at he/she may be
eligible for the award of the degree.
16.4 If any student is detained for want of requisite attendance, progress and good conduct,
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
19
the period spent in that semester shall not be considered as permitted 'Break of Study'.
17. 0 PROVISION FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXAMINATIONS
17.1 A student will be permitted to withdraw in any one of the semesters except first semester
during the entire duration of the degree programme for valid and genuine reasons by making an
application in the office of t he Controller of Examinations through the Head of the School for
withdrawal at least one day in advance of the last theory examination in that semester. When he
/ she appears subsequently, he / she has to appear for all the courses of that semester on
registration and payment of fees. Subsequent appearances will not be counted as separate
attempts.
17.2 Those students who withdraw are eligible for the award of First Class and First Class
with Distinction as per the requirement in this regard.  However he / she will not be considered
for ranking.
17.3 Withdrawal is permitted ONLY ONCE during the entire duration of the degree
programme.
17.4. Withdrawal is not permitted to the student who has not satisfied the conditions
prescribed in clause 6.0 as requirements for appearing in the Terminal examination.
17.5. Withdrawal is permitted for the Terminal examinations in the final semester only if the
period of study the student concerned does not exceed 3 years as per clause 4.0.
18.0 DISCIPLINE
18.1 Every student is required to observe discipline and decorous behavior both inside and
outside the college and not to indulge in any activity, which w ill tend to bring down the prestige
of the college. The Principal shall constitute a disciplinary committee to enquire into acts of
indiscipline and notify the institution about the disciplinary action recommended for approval. In
case of any serious disci plinary action which leads to suspension or dismissal, then a special
committee shall be constituted by the Head of the Institution for taking the final decision.
18.2    If a student indulges in malpractice in any of the Examinations, the student shall be liable
for punitive action as prescribed by the College from time to time.
19.0 REVISION OF REGULATIONS AND CURRICULUM
The standing committee/Academic Council of the College reserves the right to revise or
change or amend the regulations, the scheme of examinations, the curriculum and the syllabi
from time to time if found necessary.
M.Plan DegreeProgramme-2024–25
Board of Studies Meeting approved on 24.04.2024                           Approved in 67th Academic Council Meeting held on 25.05.2024
20
20.0 SPECIAL CASES
In the event of any clarification in the interpretation of the above rules and regulations,
they shall be referred to the Standing Committee.  The Standing Committee will offer suitable
interpretations/ clarifications /amendments required for special case on such references and get
them ratified in the next meetin g of the Academic Council. The decision of the Academic
Council is final.